Abraham's Redemption 

After these things God tested Abraham and said to him, “Abraham!” And he said, “Here I am.”  He said, “Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you.” (Genesis 22 1 2) 

God told Abraham to take a three-day journey to Moriah to sacrifice his son Isaac.  We often heard that the reason that Abraham is called the Father of Faith is because he is willing to sacrifice his only begotten son Isaac to God without asking any question.  Indeed, if a man could do such a thing, then probably there is nothing that he won't sacrifice for God.  We often heard the comparison between the sacrifice that Abraham made and the sacrifice that God made with His only begotten son Jesus for our sin. 

God is not in favor of sacrificing human life because it's a pagan worship practice.  In Leviticus it is specifically declared as below. 

Say to the people of Israel, Any one of the people of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel who gives any of his children to Molech shall surely be put to death. The people of the land shall stone him with stones.  (Leviticus 20: 2) 

So, we may wonder if God was serious about asking Abraham to sacrifice Isaac?  Also, in Hebrews it says as below. 

By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only son, of whom it was said, “Through Isaac shall your offspring be named.”  He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back. (Hebrews 11: 17 to 19) 

It seems that Abraham knew already that he would receive Isaac back. 

If we read the whole scripture more, then we would wonder why did God tell Abraham to take a three-day journey to make the sacrifice?  Why not just did it nearby?  Why was it important to sacrifice at Moriah? 

The Bible told us that God made the sacrifice demand sometime later after Abraham made the treaty with Abimelech at Beersheba to solve the dispute of a well in Negev (Genesis 21: 22 to 34).  Negev is a desert.  After failing to save Sodom and Gomorrah from God's destruction, Abraham left God's promising land of Canaan and moved to Negev.  Not only that, but he was also in no hurry to go back to Canaan.  That's why he made a treaty with Abimelech, a Philistines king, to solve a long-term drinking issue.  In other words, Abraham was taking things into his own hands even to make a deal with a pagan king.  Obviously, this is not the plan that God had for Abraham. 

Therefore, God made the test.  He told Abraham to walk a three-day journey to Moriah.  Not only that Moriah is the center of Canaan but also to go there, Abraham needed to pass through the ruins of Sodom and Gomorrah.  That indeed would bring up the scar that was buried deeply in Abraham's heart.  That's why the test was so hard for Abraham.  Not only that he would soon lose his only begotten son, but also to expose the old pain that he was trying to escape.  So, the journey itself was the utmost test for Abraham.   

Indeed, our God is an awesome God.  He knows our weakness and sorrow.  Right before Abraham was taking the knife to slay his son, the angel of God stopped him as described below. 

He said, “Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him, for now I know that you fear God, seeing you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me.”  And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram, caught in a thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son. (Genesis 22: 12 13) 

Just like when all hopes vanished and there was no light at the end of the tunnel then suddenly, there was a clear answer or provision right in front of Abraham's eyes.  Especially, it's from God.  That changed everything for Abraham.  No wonder he called the place Jehovah Jireh "The Lord Will Provide".  Not only that God provided before and now but also will provide in the future.  Abraham's faith was totally redeemed.   

So, it's not what God wanted from Abraham but to rebuild his faith with God.  This will also happen to us.  To Abraham, his destination was Moriah.  To us, our destination is Jesus Christ.  Just like Abraham, we may face a test that is too hard to bear or understand.  However, if we focus our sight on Jesus Christ and have faith in Him then we will see the provision.  It will become our Jehovah Jireh too.  Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)