Abram's Faith 

Now the Lord said to Abram, “Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you.  And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing.  I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.” So Abram went, as the Lord had told him, and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. (Genesis 12: 1 to 4) 

After the tower of Babel failure, men started idolatry.  It seems that men would never be satisfied with God alone.  They consistently tried to create something with their own hands to satisfy their ego.  Abram's family was no exception.  According to the book of Joshua:  

And Joshua said to all the people, “Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, ‘Long ago, your fathers lived beyond the Euphrates, Terah, the father of Abraham and of Nahor; and they served other gods.” (Joshua 24: 2).   

Some Bible scholars say that even Abram's father Terah was probably an idol maker.  So, it all made sense that God called Abram out of his country, his people and his father's household to the land God designated.  

So, Abram went, as the Lord had told him; and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he set out from Harran (Genesis 12: 4).  This was quite a commitment.  To fulfill the calling, Abram needed to give up the status that he had built for seventy-five years.  The only explanation for that is that he believed in God as truly the only living God.  None of the idols could ever compare. 

Last Sunday, we went to church prior to Pumpkin's marathon race.  Thanks to Keith's text messages, we knew that Pumpkin would arrive at the finish line around 10:54.  We left the church 5 past 10.  We then went back to Sam's to catch an Uber.  The Uber driver didn't seem to know how to get there.  Lucky for us that Sam did.  After arriving at the race, I decided to walk to the other side like last time.  Then I realized that the walk was farther than I thought.  To be honest, I didn't think that we could make it on time.  So, I prayed while walking.  I prayed to God to have mercy to let us catch Pumpkin's race.  I did have my doubts though.  How could I ask God for something impossible?  I regretted that we took a longer walk to the other side too.  We should just find a spot on this side even though Pumpkin might not see us. 

We finally arrived at the other side.  Then there is an inspiration in my heart that told me to stop right there.  A couple of seconds later (I am not exaggerating), I heard Sam's yelling, Sarah, Sarah.  I raised my eyes.  Sarah was passing right in front of me.  I called out Sarah at the top of my lungs.  I was so excited.  Not only that we caught Pumpkin's race but also that God answered my prayers. 

Yes, it is so real in my heart that God answered my prayer.  I could not plan that kind of timing even if I had tried.  All I could say is that God is so faithful and merciful.  And God wants us to know that too.  All we need to do is to answer His calling with faith like Abram and He will let us experience that He truly is the living God too.  Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)