Amen 

Now may the God of peace who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant, equip you with everything good that you may do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. I appeal to you, brothers, bear with my word of exhortation, for I have written to you briefly. You should know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom I shall see you if he comes soon. Greet all your leaders and all the saints. Those who come from Italy send you greetings. Grace be with all of you. (Hebrews 13: 20 to 25) 

Faith could carry us through atrocities. Atrocities could enhance faith. The result is to care for each other as the writer of Hebrews showed in the end. This is as what the Bible describes below. 

So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three; but the greatest of these is love. (First Corinthians 13: 13) 

Because God is love as the Bible described below. 

Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love. In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we might live through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us. (First John 4: 7 to 12) 

Faith is from God. However, God gives us faith not just to endure atrocities but to share His love among us. Faith is the foundation. With atrocities as the catalyst, faith needs to be extended to the love of God. Faith alone couldn’t fulfill God’s will as described in the Bible below. 

If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. And if I have prophetic powers, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing. (First Corinthians 13: 1 to 3) 

Without love, faith is nothing. The Bible didn’t mention who the Hebrews writer is. So, there were some speculations, such as the apostle Paul, Barnabas, Apollos, Luke, etc. Even though the Hebrews writer focuses on faith, in the end, he shows the same passion toward the body of the Christ, in general or specific parties. He also urged them to pray for him so that he could be restored to them sooner like what we could read from the other New Testament writers. That’s because they all showed the same characteristics. Not only do they have strong faith in the word of God but also a passion toward the body of Christ. No wonder we felt that the writer could be any of the New Testament saints we are familiar with. In the Bible, God revealed His plan for Israelites as described below. 

For thus says the Lord: When seventy years are completed for Babylon, I will visit you, and I will fulfill to you my promise and bring you back to this place. For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope. (Jeremiah 29: 10 11) 

Today, God has the same plan for us. If we understand it and submit ourselves to His plan, then we could be blessed with even higher glory as described below. 

And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified he also glorified. (Romans 8: 28 to 30) 

Our faith will no longer be limited to the world but be elevated to heaven with Christ as described below. 

What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died—more than that, who was raised—who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. (Romans 8: 31 to 34) 

The faith with Christ will lead us to the final victory as described below. 

No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. (Romans 8: 37 to 39) 

Emmanuel. Amen.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)