Another Day 

Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and those who formerly received the good news failed to enter because of disobedience, again he appoints a certain day, “Today,” saying through David so long afterward, in the words already quoted, “Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts.” For if Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken of another day later on. So then, there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God, for whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God did from his. (Hebrews 4: 6 to 10) 

After leaving Egypt and being in the desert for forty years, Israelites finally reached Canaan. However, only nine and a half tribes proceeded to enter Canaan. The other two and half tribes decided not to enter Canaan. So, Joshua promised them rest as below. 

After Moses died, Joshua led nine and a half Israelis tribes into Canaan and promised the other two and a half tribes who didn’t enter Canaan that until the Lord gives rest to your brothers as he has to you, and they also take possession of the land that the Lord your God is giving them. (Joshua 1: 15) 

Indeed, they crossed the Jordan River to help their brothers to take possession of the land that God was giving them. So, Joshua gave them rest too. To ensure the rest for Israelites, God also made the promise below. 

And I will send hornets before you, which shall drive out the Hivites, the Canaanites, and the Hittites from before you. I will not drive them out from before you in one year, lest the land become desolate and the wild beasts multiply against you. Little by little I will drive them out from before you, until you have increased and possess the land. (Exodus 23: 28 to 30) 

After possessing their own land, Israelites did follow God's command of Sabbath to rest one day after every six days. However, they didn’t follow the command of Sabbatical Year that after every six years, the land needed a year to rest. Maybe that’s why after dwelling in Canaan for four hundred and ninety years, God allowed Israel to be captured and exiled to Babylon for seventy years so that it could fulfill the Sabbatical years that Israelis had owed. 

Furthermore, God didn't drive out all the nations but to use them to test Israelites as described below. 

Now these are the nations that the Lord left, to test Israel by them, that is, all in Israel who had not experienced all the wars in Canaan. It was only in order that the generations of the people of Israel might know war, to teach war to those who had not known it before. (Judges 3: 1 2) 

The purpose was to teach Israelites to return to God's rest as described below. 

For thus said the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, “In returning and rest you shall be saved; in quietness and in trust shall be your strength.” But you were unwilling, and you said, “No! We will flee upon horses”; therefore you shall flee away; and, “We will ride upon swift steeds”; therefore your pursuers shall be swift. (Isaiah 30: 15 16) 

The rest that would not only save Israelites but also gave them strength to endure the trial. However, they wouldn't listen. That's why God emphasized His rest again through David as below. 

For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts, as at Meribah, as on the day at Massah in the wilderness (Psalm 95: 7 8) 

However, to turn from a hardened heart to a humble and obedient heart, we need to know what we are against as apostle Paul described below.  

For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. (Ephesians 6: 12) 

This is not something we could overcome with our own flesh and blood. So, Jesus Christ told us not to be labored and heavily ladened to strive by ourselves but to come to him as described below. 

Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” (Matthew 11: 28 to 30) 

Not only that, but Jesus Christ also gave us his assurance as described below. 

My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one.” (John 10: 27 to 30) 

The reason that Christ Jesus could give us the assurance was because he is the second Joshua. The rest that was given by the first Joshua didn't get fulfilled. Christ Jesus, the Son of God, as the second Joshua indeed fulfilled God's rest once for all. All we need to do is to come to him by faith. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)