Esau's Descendants 

These are the generations of Esau (that is, Edom).  Esau took his wives from the Canaanites: Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, Oholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite, and Basemath, Ishmael's daughter, the sister of Nebaioth.  And Adah bore to Esau, Eliphaz; Basemath bore Reuel; and Oholibamah bore Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. These are the sons of Esau who were born to him in the land of Canaan. (Genesis 36: 1 to 5) 

Like Jacob, the Bible also recorded Esau's posterity, Edomites.  Later, Edomites were divided into several tribes, such as Amalek and Gebal.  Each tribe was developed as big as the local tribes of Canaan.  When Moses led Israels out of Egypt to enter Canaan, they became a big thorn in Israel's side. 

We all know that Esau traded his firstborn birthright to Jacob for a bowl of red bean soup (that's why the name Edom, red), so why did the Bible still record his descendants in detail?  Not only that, why did God let Edomites become so big?  That's because God gave Isaac the same blessing as Jacob.  Esau was the son of Isaac.  So, his descendants also inherited the blessing.   

That's how faithful God is.  Even though Esau couldn't keep his end of the bargain, God kept his end of the bargain for the sake of Isaac.  Then why did God give Abraham the same blessing?  It seems that God only needed to bless Issac.  Or, blessed Jacob alone, if God's purpose was for Israel.  Why made the same blessing to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.  We know that God is faithful.  He only needed to give the blessing once to one person and that should be sufficient.  

Well, that's because Abraham has another descendant other than Isaac, those who were justified by faith.  The Bible called Abraham the father of all those who have faith as below. 

For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be heir of the world did not come through the law but through the righteousness of faith.  For if it is the adherents of the law who are to be the heirs, faith is null and the promise is void.  For the law brings wrath, but where there is no law there is no transgression. That is why it depends on faith, in order that the promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring—not only to the adherent of the law but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all, as it is written, “I have made you the father of many nations”—in the presence of the God in whom he believed, who gives life to the dead and calls into existence the things that do not exist. (Romans 4: 13 to 17) 

Then where did the faith come from?  How do we get it? The Bible says: 

Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. (Hebrews 12: 1 2) 

So, faith comes from Jesus.  He is the founder and perfecter of faith.  All we need to do is to run with perseverance the race marked out for us just like a marathon runner.  A marathon runner is fixing his/her eyes on the finish line.  We are fixing our eyes on Jesus Christ.  Then we will get the same blessing as Israel.  This blessing is not just to multiply, but also the promised land.  The promised land is Canaan, the land of milk and honey for Israel.  But it's the New Jerusalem for us.  One is worldly but the other is heavenly, not only heavenly but also eternally.  Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)