I Am Who I Am

Then Moses said to God, “If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, ‘The God of your fathers has sent me to you,’ and they ask me, ‘What is his name?’ what shall I say to them?” God said to Moses, “I am who I am.” And he said, “Say this to the people of Israel: ‘I am has sent me to you.’” God also said to Moses, “Say this to the people of Israel: ‘The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you.’ This is my name forever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. Go and gather the elders of Israel together and say to them, ‘The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, has appeared to me, saying, “I have observed you and what has been done to you in Egypt, and I promise that I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, a land flowing with milk and honey.”’ (Exodus 3: 13 to 17)

God was referred to various names in the Bible. In Genesis, God has been referred to names as described below.

ELOHIM - God “Creator, Mighty and Strong” (Genesis 1: 1).
YAHWEH-ELOHIM - "LORD God" (Genesis 2:4).
EL ELYON - “Most High" (Genesis 14:18).
ADONAI - “Lord” or "Master"(Genesis 15 :2).
EL ROI - "God of Seeing" (Genesis 16:13).
EL SHADDAI - “God Almighty,” “The Mighty One of Jacob” (Genesis 17: 1).
YAHWEH JIREH - "The Lord Will Provide" (Genesis 22:14).

So, Israelites were familiar with God, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob as God said. Yet, Moses still asked what God's name was. Instead of giving Moses any of those names known by Israelites, God simply said He is "I Am" which is connected to the name Yahweh, Jehovah that Israelites were familiar with. Yahweh or Jehovah means "Lord". Yet "I Am" means no equal, no dependence, and unique oneness. God sent Moses to lead Israelites out of Egypt not only to deliver them out of afflictions but also to know the one and only from eternal to eternal God. In the Bible, Jesus Christ also said eight "I Am" as described below.

I am the bread of life (John 6: 35).
I am the light of the world (John 8: 12).
I am the door of the sheep (John 10: 7).
I am the good shepherd (John 10: 11).
I am the resurrection and the life (John 11: 25).
I am the way, and the truth, and the life (John 14: 6).
I am the true vine (John 15: 1).

Then the most significant "I Am" as described below.

“Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am.” (John 8: 58).

It connects Jesus to God's divine name "I Am" and his pre-existence. Just like God performed His wonders while Moses was leading the Israelites out of Egypt, Jesus Christ also performed his wonders to prove he is the son of God while saving sinners like us. No wonder it is described in the Bible as below.

No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. (John 1: 18)

So, by knowing Jesus Christ, we could also know God, and vice versa. Then it is eternal life as described below.

And this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. (John 17: 3)

By God's mercy, Moses could deliver the Israelites out of Egypt and enter the land of milk and honey. By Christ's grace we are delivered out of the dark domain and enter the eternal life of New Jerusalem. Emmanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)