Isaac's Blessing 

Now there was a famine in the land, besides the former famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went to Gerar to Abimelech king of the Philistines.  And the Lord appeared to him and said, “Do not go down to Egypt; dwell in the land of which I shall tell you.  Sojourn in this land, and I will be with you and will bless you, for to you and to your offspring I will give all these lands, and I will establish the oath that I swore to Abraham your father.  I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and will give to your offspring all these lands. And in your offspring all the nations of the earth shall be blessed,  because Abraham obeyed my voice and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.”  So Isaac settled in Gerar.  (Genesis 26: 1 to 6) 

If we looked at Isaac's life, it seemed that everything was handed to him without his effort.  He married the woman arranged by his father Abraham (Genesis 24).  He inherited everything that Abraham owned (Genesis 25: 5).  He prayed for a son then God gave him not only one but twins (Genesis 25: 21).  Now, God gave him the same blessings as Abraham.  God gave Isaac's son, Jacob, the same blessings as described below. 

And God said to him, “I am God Almighty: be fruitful and multiply. A nation and a company of nations shall come from you, and kings shall come from your own body. The land that I gave to Abraham and Isaac I will give to you, and I will give the land to your offspring after you.” Then God went up from him in the place where he had spoken with him. (Genesis 35: 11 to 13) 

Just because Isaac and Jacob were Abraham's descendants, they inherited the same blessings from God as Abraham.  Not only that, but God also said to Israelites as below. 

“I will look on you with favor and make you fruitful and increase your numbers, and I will keep my covenant with you." (Leviticus 26: 9) 

"I will remember my covenant with Jacob and my covenant with Isaac and my covenant with Abraham, and I will remember the land." (Leviticus 26: 42) 

God blessed the nation of Israel the same because they are the descendants of Abraham.  As for Gentiles, they were excluded from the blessing.  Yet, apostle Paul told us as below. 

Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham.  And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, “In you shall all the nations be blessed.”  So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. (Galatians 3: 7 to 9) 

So, Gentiles who rely on faith are blessed alone with Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and the whole nation of Israel.  Paul continued below. 

Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us—for it is written, “Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree”—  so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith. (Galatians 3: 13 14) 

According to the scripture, through Christ Jesus, we received not only the blessing given to Abraham but also the faith.  This faith will not only change our fate but also our heart.  It's not only a blessing but also an assurance.  An assurance that was sealed with the blood of Jesus Christ.  Jesus not only died for our sins but also resurrected for our faith.  God reminded Israelites about the blessing through so many generations.  We can receive the same blessing and more with the faith through Christ Jesus once for all just like the Bible told us.  Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)