Israel Blesses Ephraim and Manasseh 

And Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it on the head of Ephraim, who was the younger, and his left hand on the head of Manasseh, crossing his hands (for Manasseh was the firstborn). And he blessed Joseph and said, “The God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked, the God who has been my shepherd all my life long to this day, the angel who has redeemed me from all evil, bless the boys; and in them let my name be carried on, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth.” 

When Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand on the head of Ephraim, it displeased him, and he took his father's hand to move it from Ephraim's head to Manasseh's head. And Joseph said to his father, “Not this way, my father; since this one is the firstborn, put your right hand on his head.” But his father refused and said, “I know, my son, I know. He also shall become a people, and he also shall be great. Nevertheless, his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his offspring shall become a multitude of nations.” So he blessed them that day, saying, “By you Israel will pronounce blessings, saying, ‘God make you as Ephraim and as Manasseh.’” Thus he put Ephraim before Manasseh. (Genesis 48: 14 to 20) 

Jacob realized how important to be a firstborn and the blessing of a father. He experienced them firsthand in his life. So, when he blessed Joseph's two sons, he took it seriously.  Not only he wanted to give Joseph his double portion of blessings but also blessed them by the name of Israel, the name given by God rather than Jacob, the name given by his father. 

Maybe that's why Jacob put Ephraim before Manasseh. According to Joseph, Ephraim, the second son, means “For God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction”, while Manasseh, the firstborn means “God has made me forget all my hardship and all my father's house.” (Genesis 41: 51 52) 

Since Jacob adapted both Joseph's sons, they would be two of the Israel tribes.  So, Jacob wanted to put being fruitful prior to hardship for the tribes. Indeed, even though both tribes were blessed, the Ephraim tribe was so fruitful that it used to refer to the whole northern nation of Israel in the book of Isaiah.   

Including Jacob, God named people, before or after their birth, throughout history. For example: 

People named by God before birth: 

Ishmael, “God hears” (Genesis 16: 11) 

Isaac, “he laughs” (Genesis 17: 19) 

Maher-Shalal-Hash-Baz, “quickly to the plunder” (Isaiah 8: 3) 

Jezreel, “God sows” or “the Lord sows” (Hosea 1: 4) 

Lo-Ruhamah, “Not having obtained mercy, not pitied” (Hosea 1: 6) 

Lo-Ammi, “not my people” (Hosea 1: 9) 

Jesus, “God saves” (Matthew 1: 21) 

John [The Baptist], “graced by God”. (Luke 1: 13) 

People renamed by God: 

Abram to Abraham, “father of many” (Genesis 17: 5) 

Sarai to Sarah, “princess” (Genesis 17: 15) 

Jacob to Israel, "he strives with God, or God strives" (Genesis 32: 28) 

Solomon to Jedidiah, “beloved of the Lord” (Second Samuel 12: 25) 

Simon to Peter, “rock, stone” (Matthew 16: 18) 

From the Bible, we learned that not only those names carried important messages from God, but also those people played important roles for God's works during the time. Especially the name of Jesus as described in the Bible below. 

This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone. And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.” (Acts 4: 11 12) 

Jesus is not only a name but also our salvation. If we believe in Jesus by calling his name as Lord, then we can be saved as described below. 

For the Scripture says, “Everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame.” For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For “everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.” (Romans 10: 11 to 13) 

If we understand the name of Jesus, then we will understand the name of God, why God's Ten Commandments says that "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain", why Lord's prayer starts with “Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name". Jacob knew what it meant when God renamed him Israel and acted accordingly. We should also know when we are saved and born again with Jesus Christ then our names will be written in the Lamb's Book of Life. We should act as the Bible described below. 

If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. (Colossians 3: 1 to 4) 

So, if we act accordingly then not only our names will be more significant, but our lives will also be transformed. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)