Israel Blesses Other Sons 

"Zebulun shall dwell at the shore of the sea; he shall become a haven for ships, and his border shall be at Sidon.  

"Issachar is a strong donkey, crouching between the sheepfolds. He saw that a resting place was good, and that the land was pleasant, so he bowed his shoulder to bear, and became a servant at forced labor.  

"Dan shall judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel. Dan shall be a serpent in the way, a viper by the path, that bites the horse's heels so that his rider falls backward. I wait for your salvation, O Lord.  

"Raiders shall raid Gad, but he shall raid at their heels.  

"Asher's food shall be rich, and he shall yield royal delicacies.  

"Naphtali is a doe let loose that bears beautiful fawns. 

"Joseph is a fruitful bough, a fruitful bough by a spring; his branches run over the wall. The archers bitterly attacked him, shot at him, and harassed him severely, yet his bow remained unmoved; his arms were made agile by the hands of the Mighty One of Jacob (from there is the Shepherd, the Stone of Israel), by the God of your father who will help you, by the Almighty who will bless you with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that crouches beneath, blessings of the breasts and of the womb. The blessings of your father are mighty beyond the blessings of my parents, up to the bounties of the everlasting hills. May they be on the head of Joseph, and on the brow of him who was set apart from his brothers.  

"Benjamin is a ravenous wolf, in the morning devouring the prey and at evening dividing the spoil." (Genesis 49: 13 to 27) 

As the Bible describes, Israel's blessing accurately determined the future of each of Israel tribes. As expected, his blessing emphasized Joseph the most. It could be because of his suffering and contribution to the family. Or it could be that he loved Joseph the most. That's why Israel not only blessed Joseph's two sons but also blessed Joseph himself more than his brothers. Israel's blessing for some other sons seemed to be brief and trivial. Why didn't Israel bless them more?  Isn't God so mighty and loving who is capable to fulfil all of Jacob's blessings? After all, it concerned the future of Israel, a peculiar nation chosen by God. 

We know that Israel's blessing for Judah was for the coming of the Messiah, Jesus Christ.  Because of that blessing, we know that Jesus, the Savior, would be the descendent of Judah as shown in the two genealogies of Jesus in the Bible. There were prophecies about Israel's two other sons, Zebulun and Naphtali, that affected us equally, if not more, as described in the Bible below. 

But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light; those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness, on them, had light shone. (Isaiah 9: 1 2) 

For to us a child is born, to us a son is given; and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end, on the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore.  The zeal of the LORD of hosts will do this. (Isaiah 9: 6 7) 

In Jacob's blessings, he simply stated that Zebulun shall dwell at the shore of the sea and Naphtali would bear beautiful fawns. It may sound insignificant and lowly. However, in God's plan, they would become significant and glorious as prophesied. When Jesus came, they were no longer prophecies, but realities as described in the Bible below. 

And leaving Nazareth he went and lived in Capernaum by the sea, in the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali, so that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled: 

“The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles—the people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light, and for those dwelling in the region and shadow of death, on them a light has dawned.” 

From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.” (Matthew 4: 13 to 17) 

Just as Israel's blessing, Zebulun and Naphtali didn't play important roles in Israelites history.  Due to their geographic locations close to the border, they were subjected to the oppressions from foreign kingdoms which brought many gentiles to settle there. Yet, because of Jesus, they would see great light in darkness. This is true for us too. Even if we are insignificant and lowly, because of Jesus, we will be called the children of light too. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)