Jacob's Last Command 

Then he commanded them and said to them, “I am to be gathered to my people; bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite, in the cave that is in the field at Machpelah, to the east of Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field from Ephron the Hittite to possess as a burying place. There they buried Abraham and Sarah, his wife. There they buried Isaac and Rebekah, his wife, and there I buried Leah— the field and the cave that is in it were bought from the Hittites.” When Jacob finished commanding his sons, he drew up his feet into the bed and breathed his last and was gathered to his people. (Genesis 49: 29 to 33) 

According to the Bible, Jacob was very aggressive and capable. He ran away from home empty handed and returned home with a great fortune and a big family. Because of him, a nation of Israel was born. As told by the man who he met at the ford of Jabbok, “Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel, for you have striven with God and with men, and have prevailed.” (Genesis 32: 28). Yet, as the man touched his hip socket, Jacob's hip was put out of joint as he wrestled with him. So, Jacob called the name of the place Peniel, saying, “For I have seen God face to face, and yet my life has been delivered.” (Genesis 32: 30). Then Jacob seemed to have withdrawn from his enthusiasm in life. He spared a big fortune with Esau and acted humbly. He didn't express much when he heard about the young Joseph's dreams, or that Reuben went up to his bed and defiled it. Even when his sons told him that “Joseph is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt.”  All he said was “It is enough; Joseph my son is still alive. I will go and see him before I die.” (Genesis 45: 26, 28) God not only made his body limp but also subdued his heart. His limping reminded him to submit to God's will of him being Israel daily. That's why he could prophesy the future of his twelve sons, the future of the Israel nation. That's why when he finished commanding his sons, he drew up his limping feet to bed to claim the accomplishment of God's will in his life. 

As Jacob's hip was put out of joint, apostle Paul also had a thorn was given him in the flesh as described below. 

So to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. But he said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong. (Second Corinthians 12: 7 to 10) 

Paul realized that by submitting to God's grace, the power of Christ could rest upon him. So, he is no longer concerned about himself but focuses on the power of Christ. So, in the end Paul could claim as Jacob that he had accomplished his life as described below. 

For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure has come. I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that day, and not only to me but also to all who have loved his appearing. (Second Timothy 4: 6 to 8) 

Oftentimes, we are just like Jacob and the apostle Paul.  We love to accomplish God's works with our own strength and intelligence. Then one day, something happened to us, things we couldn't overcome or reverse, that's when we truly meet with God. Like Jacob, we could become limping outwardly, yet we would open the inner eyes since we have met with God inwardly. As Paul described in the Bible below 

as we look not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal. (Second Corinthian 4: 18) 

We no longer focused on things that are seen.  We could focus on things that are unseen. Then whoever does the will of God abides forever as described below. 

Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride of life is not from the Father but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. (First John 2: 15 to 17) 

In the end, we could wrap up our life like Jacob and apostle Paul as if we have accomplished what God has called us to do. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)