Jacob's Revival 

So, they went up out of Egypt and came to the land of Canaan to their father Jacob. And they told him, “Joseph is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt.” And his heart became numb, for he did not believe them. But when they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said to them, and when he saw the wagons that Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of their father Jacob revived. And Israel said, “It is enough; Joseph my son is still alive. I will go and see him before I die.” (Genesis 45: 25 to 28) 

According to the Bible, Jacob was very cunning when he was young so that he could steal Esau's birthright and Isaac's blessing. He was also persistent so that he could work for 14 years to marry Rachel who he loved. He was crafty too so that he managed to make Laban's flocks his. It was so intriguing that people named a strange breed of sheep "Jacob Sheep" in the UK to symbolize the phenomenal. He was also perseverant that when he was challenged at the ford of Jabbok, he could struggle with the man all night even though that man was sent from God. He was very cautious too. So, when he was meeting with Esau, he prepared for all possible harms thoroughly. Yet, when he heard that Joseph was killed by wild animals, Jacob was crashed. He was so sad that he didn't even bother to look for God's help or comfort. He just accepted it as a fact. It's amazing that a person who was so capable and confident could become so desperate. So, when he heard that Joseph was still alive and became the ruler over the land of Egypt, he refused to believe it. That's how desperate Jacob had felt. Then when he saw the wagons that Joseph had sent, his spirit was revived. 

He must have remembered Joseph's two dreams. Especially, in Joseph's second dream, not only did the stars bow down to Joseph but also the sun and moon. At that time, Jacob must think that the dream meant he was bowing down to Joseph. Now, he must have realized that the dream meant that God would use Joseph to bend his will. Not only Jacob, but God was also using Joseph to bend the will of all his brothers so that Jacob's whole household could be humble and submissive to God's will. Otherwise, by their own nature, they would never be submissive to God's will. 

What happened in Jacob's family could be illustrated by Jesus' teaching below. 

 “Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace, but a sword. For I have come to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. And a person's enemies will be those of his own household. Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. (Matthew 10: 34 to 39) 

We often thought that home is a haven for us. Now, Jesus wanted to turn it into a battle ground. We might not be able to comprehend or accept first. However, if we are willing to take our own cross and follow Jesus Christ, then we will experience how our life is transformed from our worldly form to the godly form of Christ. Furthermore, Jesus Christ has promised us as described below. 

I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world.” (John 16: 33) 

My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one.” (John 10: 27 to 30) 

Home could only provide us temporary peace and comfort. But in Christ, we could have the eternal life and peace that no one could snatch out of Christ's hand. This has happened to Jacob. This could happen to us now. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)