Jacob's Escape 

So Jacob arose and set his sons and his wives on camels.  He drove away all his livestock, all his property that he had gained, the livestock in his possession that he had acquired in Paddan-aram, to go to the land of Canaan to his father Isaac.  Laban had gone to shear his sheep, and Rachel stole her father's household gods.  And Jacob tricked Laban the Aramean, by not telling him that he intended to flee.  He fled with all that he had and arose and crossed the Euphrates, and set his face toward the hill country of Gilead. (Genesis 31: 17 to 21) 

Jacob felt that he was no longer welcome after overhearing Laban's sons saying that Jacob had taken everything they owned and gained all their wealth. (Genesis 31: 1) Also, an angel of God told Jacob in his dream to go back to his native land as he described to his wives below. 

Then the angel of God said to me in the dream, ‘Jacob,’ and I said, ‘Here I am!’  And he said, ‘Lift up your eyes and see, all the goats that mate with the flock are striped, spotted, and mottled, for I have seen all that Laban is doing to you.  I am the God of Bethel, where you anointed a pillar and made a vow to me. Now arise, go out from this land and return to the land of your kindred.’”  Then Rachel and Leah answered and said to him, “Is there any portion or inheritance left to us in our father's house?  Are we not regarded by him as foreigners? For he has sold us, and he has indeed devoured our money.  All the wealth that God has taken away from our father belongs to us and to our children. Now then, whatever God has said to you, do.” (Genesis 31: 11 to 16) 

So, Jacob decided to flee.  Then his wife Rachel stole her father's household gods.  Because of that, Laban pursues Jacob for seven days after Jacob has gone.   

In the old world, whoever owned the household gods would be blessed by the ancestors.  Only the ones who had the right of inheritance could own them.  That could be why Rachel stole them.  Rachel not only thought they were entitled to the wealth, but also the inheritance. 

Then God came to Laban the Aramean in a dream at night and said to him,  

“Be careful not to say anything to Jacob, either good or bad.” (Genesis 31: 24) 

So, when Laban caught up with Jacob, all Laban could do was to ask for the household gods, yet he couldn't find them.  In the end, Laban made peace with Jacob. 

As Jacob, Rachel cared about her inheritance so much too that she was willing to risk her own life.  Maybe that's why God chose Rachel's son Joseph to be the one who not only received great glory in Egypt but also brought Jacob's whole household to Egypt that later developed as Israel. 

In Psalm, it says: 

The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup; you hold my lot. The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places; indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance. (Psalm 16: 5 6) 

For us who are saved by grace, the inheritance is God and His love which come through Jesus Christ as Paul described below. 

What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?  He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things?  Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies.  Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died—more than that, who was raised—who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. (Romans 8: 31 to 34) 

If we truly treasure this inheritance as we should, then we not only inherit all things from this world but also from heaven and nobody can deny it.  Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)