Joseph's Temptation 

The Lord was with Joseph, and he became a successful man, and he was in the house of his Egyptian master.  His master saw that the Lord was with him and that the Lord caused all that he did to succeed in his hands.  So Joseph found favor in his sight and attended him, and he made him overseer of his house and put him in charge of all that he had.  From the time that he made him overseer in his house and over all that he had, the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; the blessing of the Lord was on all that he had, in house and field.  So he left all that he had in Joseph's charge, and because of him he had no concern about anything but the food he ate. Now Joseph was handsome in form and appearance.  And after a time his master's wife cast her eyes on Joseph and said, “Lie with me.”  But he refused and said to his master's wife, “Behold, because of me my master has no concern about anything in the house, and he has put everything that he has in my charge. He is not greater in this house than I am, nor has he kept back anything from me except you, because you are his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God?” (Genesis 39: 2 to 9) 

Joseph was seventeen when he was brought to Egypt and sold to Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard. God was with Joseph. It was so obvious that even his master was so convinced. So, he trusted Joseph with everything that he owned. However, his master's wife broke that trust because of her lust toward Joseph. After refusing her, the master's wife framed Joseph by telling her husband that Joseph came in unto her to mock her. So, Joseph's master took him and put him into the prison. 

It's amazing that as a teenager, Joseph could endure those drastic ups and downs. Not only that, but he also endured the worst kind of temptation for a young man, the sexuality temptation. What's the secret for his strength to resist the temptation? We know that he had dreams about his family being bowing down before him. Also, that God made him a prosperous man to find grace in his master's sight. It could all be because of the covenant that God made with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. While his brothers might have forgotten about it, Joseph certainly hadn't. That's why he wouldn't defy himself under any circumstance because he valued this family heritage more than himself.  

That reminded me of a conversation I had with an elderly pastor. He asked me when I was saved? I told him that I was born in a Christian family. So, I have been a believer all my life. He sighed and said that I was blessed because that saved me from lots of wrong doings at youth. Later, I realized that I am also a fifth generation Christian. Ever since, whenever I had ups, downs, or temptations, I always remind myself of this family heritage so that I would make fewer wrong doings. Of course, to be justified, we need God's covenant too as stated in the Bible. 

For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws into their minds, and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.  And they shall not teach, each one his neighbor and each one his brother, saying, ‘Know the Lord,’ for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest.  For I will be merciful toward their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more.” (Hebrews 8: 10 to 12) 

God's word is law. The Bible describes the word as below. 

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.  He was in the beginning with God.  All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made.  In him was life, and the life was the light of men.  The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. (John 1: 1 to 5) 

And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. (John 1: 14) 

By faith we understand that the universe was created by the word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. (Hebrews 11: 3) 

So, God's begotten son Jesus Christ is the Word becomes flesh. When God made the new covenant with His people, He is putting Jesus Christ in their mind.  If we accepted Jesus Christ in our hearts, then we are sealed with the new covenant. This new covenant would bring us into a new universe that is full of grace and truth. This kind of vision would give us the same assurance and faith to defy all ups, downs and temptations like Joseph. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)