Joseph's Reconciliation 

Then Joseph could not control himself before all those who stood by him. He cried, “Make everyone go out from me.” So no one stayed with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers. And he wept aloud, so that the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard it. And Joseph said to his brothers, “I am Joseph! Is my father still alive?” But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence. So Joseph said to his brothers, “Come near to me, please.” And they came near. And he said, “I am your brother, Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt. And now do not be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life. (Genesis 45: 1 to 5) 

It's hard to imagine how Joseph could hold back this long to reconcile with his brothers.  However, when he did, his enormous emotion and passion exploded so that Egyptians around him could hear it. He waited not because he wanted to torment his brothers, he was tormented too. He waited because he knew that all his dreams, wisdoms and high positions were not for his own glory but for a higher purpose. For God sent him before them to preserve life. Not only to preserve life but to transform life too. All the tricks that Joseph played on his brothers confirmed that they were transformed because they had sold Joseph. The Israel family was now transformed to a uniformed body under God. Later, God could transform this body into a peculiar nation. 

This happens to us too.  Sometimes we felt that we were being treated wrong or betrayed like what Joseph's brothers did to him. Oftentimes, we wish that God would solve those issues or take them away as quickly as possible. However, God seems to have his own plan. In the Bible, apostle Paul described it as below. 

So to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. But he said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong. (Second Corinthians 12: 7 to 10) 

We know that apostle Paul had a lot of hardship and trial that made his faith and spirit strong.  So, when he pleaded here, we knew that he wouldn't plead for trivial matters. Instead, as he said it's a messenger of Satan, a person who made Paul dreadful and weak. Yet, God told Paul that His grace is sufficient for him. So, for the sake of Christ, Paul could boast all his weaknesses.  Paul also said as below. 

But we have this treasure in jars of clay, to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair; persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed; always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies. For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. So death is at work in us, but life in you. (Second Corinthians 4: 7 to 12) 

Indeed, death is at work in us so that life is in others. This is what happened to Joseph so that his family could gain a new life. This also happened to apostle Paul so that he could write those letters which helped people of all generations to find life in Christ. Jesus Christ himself also died for our sins so that we could live free of God's curse and condemnation. Now, it's our turn to follow the example of Jesus Christ to prove to the world the power of his resurrection in us so that others could find a new life in Christ. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)

