Mahanaim 

Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.  And when Jacob saw them he said, “This is God's camp!” So he called the name of that place Mahanaim. And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother in the land of Seir, the country of Edom,  instructing them, “Thus you shall say to my lord Esau: Thus says your servant Jacob, ‘I have sojourned with Laban and stayed until now.  I have oxen, donkeys, flocks, male servants, and female servants. I have sent to tell my lord, in order that I may find favor in your sight.’” 

And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, “We came to your brother Esau, and he is coming to meet you, and there are four hundred men with him.”  Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed. He divided the people who were with him, and the flocks and herds and camels, into two camps,  thinking, “If Esau comes to the one camp and attacks it, then the camp that is left will escape.” (Genesis 32: 1 to 8) 

After leaving Laban, Jacob was on his way to meet his brother, Esau.  Since it wouldn't be a pleasant reunion, God sent the angels to meet with Jacob.  Jacob named that place Mahanaim, two camps.  God's camp as one and Jacob's own family as another.  This was God's assurance to Jacob that if his own camp failed then there was still God's camp at his disposal.  Later, Jacob applied the same thought to his own family.  He divided them into two camps that in case one was attacked, the other could still escape.   

The Bible describes how Jesus sent out disciples as below. 

After this the Lord appointed seventy-two others and sent them on ahead of him, two by two, into every town and place where he himself was about to go.  And he said to them, “The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.  Go your way; behold, I am sending you out as lambs in the midst of wolves. (Luke 10: 1 to 3) 

Jesus also sent disciples out in pairs because they would need to face hostile situations just like when Jacob met with Esau, like lambs amid wolves.  With being paired, disciples wouldn't have to face the situation alone.  They could be each other's support and help. Ecclesiastes describes something similar as below. 

Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their toil.  For if they fall, one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him who is alone when he falls and has not another to lift him up!  Again, if two lie together, they keep warm, but how can one keep warm alone?  And though a man might prevail against one who is alone, two will withstand him—a threefold cord is not quickly broken. (Ecclesiastes 4: 9 to 12) 

Here, it taught us that there is another kind, a threefold cord, with the Holy Spirit being the third cord.  That's why before sending them out, Jesus needed to give disciples authority over the unclean spirits and asked them to pray earnestly to the Lord.  Indeed, if we were sent out to do God's ministry, we might be able to prevail at first.  Since we are weak and limited, we might not be able to survive the pressure and difficulties for long.  However, if we have the Holy Spirit in us, then the Holy Spirit would bring us the strength and wisdom from heaven.  It would not only help us to overcome the hardship to prevail further but also build up our faith.  Eventually, we would no longer work with our weak flesh that is under the mercy of this world but to claim the kingdom victory from the heavenly throne.  Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)