Making Bricks

Then they said, “The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Please let us go a three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God, lest he fall upon us with pestilence or with the sword.” But the king of Egypt said to them, “Moses and Aaron, why do you take the people away from their work? Get back to your burdens.” And Pharaoh said, “Behold, the people of the land are now many, and you make them rest from their burdens!” The same day Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters of the people and their foremen, “You shall no longer give the people straw to make bricks, as in the past; let them go and gather straw for themselves. But the number of bricks that they made in the past you shall impose on them, you shall by no means reduce it, for they are idle. Therefore they cry, ‘Let us go and offer sacrifice to our God.’ Let heavier work be laid on the men that they may labor at it and pay no regard to lying words.” (Exodus 5: 3 to 9)

When Joseph brought his family Israel to Egypt, they were shepherds. The land Goshen that Joseph chose for them had pasture that was good for raising their flocks. Many years later, Israelites were making bricks for Pharaoh. It could be that making bricks was easier than raising flocks. Or, it could be that making bricks was paid better and stable. Yet, after giving up shepherding, they were now under the control of Pharaoh. Not only that they had no other means to make a living, but also lost the freedom to worship God. So, when Moses and Aaron told Pharaoh to let Israelites go on a three days' journey to sacrifice to their God, it was denied. So, the only way to deliver from their sufferings was to leave Egypt to start over again as God planned. This could be reflected in our lives too. After being saved, we still need to make a living in the world. Oftentimes, we made a wrong turn to comply with the world that put us in a desperate situation of no return. The only way out is to give it up and start over again like the Israelites. As for Pharaoh, he denied Moses and Aaron's plea because he didn't know God as described in the Bible below.

But Pharaoh said, “Who is the Lord, that I should obey his voice and let Israel go? I do not know the Lord, and moreover, I will not let Israel go.” (Exodus 5: 2)

When Joseph was sold to Egypt by his brothers, everything he said or did was undeniably from God. Even the old Pharaoh said so as described below.

And Pharaoh said to his servants, “Can we find a man like this, in whom is the Spirit of God?” Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Since God has shown you all this, there is none so discerning and wise as you are. You shall be over my house, and all my people shall order themselves as you command. Only as regards the throne will I be greater than you.” (Genesis 41: 38 to 40)

So, every Egyptian knew about Joseph's God at that time. Because of that, Joseph could bring Israel to the pasture in Egypt. So, God blessed not only Israelites, but also Egyptians to deliver them both from the famines. Now the new Pharaoh said that he didn't know God. So, to refresh Egyptians' memory, God hardened Pharaoh's heart so that God could perform His wonders to show Egyptians who is the real God. The same was applied to the Israelites. Because when Pharaoh laid heavier burdens to the Israelites, they complained to Moses and Aaron as described below.

and they said to them, “The Lord look on you and judge, because you have made us stink in the sight of Pharaoh and his servants, and have put a sword in their hand to kill us.” (Exodus 5: 21)

So, not only the Egyptians didn't know about God, the Israelites didn't know about God either. So, they both needed the Almighty to refresh their hearts. This could happen to us too. To refresh our hearts, God would need to give us afflictions to remind us as described below.

And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, yet your Teacher will not hide himself anymore, but your eyes shall see your Teacher. And your ears shall hear a word behind you, saying, “This is the way, walk in it,” when you turn to the right or when you turn to the left. (Isaiah 30: 20 21)

So, instead of making bricks for the world, let's pray to the Holy Spirit to keep our heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the springs of life (Proverbs 4: 23). Immanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)