Moses – The Inheritor 

By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw that the child was beautiful, and they were not afraid of the king's edict. By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin. He considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking to the reward. By faith he left Egypt, not being afraid of the anger of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. By faith he kept the Passover and sprinkled the blood, so that the Destroyer of the firstborn might not touch them. By faith the people crossed the Red Sea as on dry land, but the Egyptians, when they attempted to do the same, were drowned. (Hebrews 11: 23 to 29) 

Moses was living a faithful life as praised by God below. 

And he said, “Hear my words: If there is a prophet among you, I the Lord make myself known to him in a vision; I speak with him in a dream. Not so with my servant Moses. He is faithful in all my house. (Numbers 12: 6 7) 

In God’s mind, no one could be more faithful than Moses. Yet, when Moses lifted his hand and struck the rock with his staff twice, God changed His tone as described below. 

And Moses lifted up his hand and struck the rock with his staff twice, and water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their livestock. And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, “Because you did not believe in me, to uphold me as holy in the eyes of the people of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land that I have given them.” (Numbers 20: 11 12) 

It seemed that both Moses and Aaron failed God badly. However, Moses didn’t change his faith even experienced God’s wrath. He faithfully guarded God’s sovereignty under any circumstance as described below. 

Now Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer and put fire in it and laid incense on it and offered unauthorized fire before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. And fire came out from before the Lord and consumed them, and they died before the Lord. Then Moses said to Aaron, “This is what the Lord has said: ‘Among those who are near me I will be sanctified, and before all the people I will be glorified.’” And Aaron held his peace. (Leviticus 10: 1 to 3) 

That’s why God could count on Moses to deliver the law as described below. 

For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. (John 1: 17) 

So, Moses had paved the way, the word of God, for Jesus Christ to bring it to life. Also, through Moses, God could reveal His salvation, such as described below. 

The bronze serpent that Moses lifted in the desert to save the Israelites bitten by the fiery serpents. 

No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. (John 3: 13 to 15) 

The rock that was struck by Moses and the water from the rock. 

For I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. (First Corinthians 10: 1 to 4) 

Jesus Christ was the Rock. To redeem our sins, he only needed to die once to uphold God as holy. Yet, out of his anger, Moses struck the rock twice. Therefore, the reprimand from God. That made Moses realize without faith, everything was in vain in flesh as he described below. 

The years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength eighty; yet their span is but toil and trouble; they are soon gone, and we fly away. (Psalm 90: 10) 

Then the curtain in the holy temple. 

And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit. And behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom. And the earth shook, and the rocks were split. (Matthew 27: 50 51) 

Moses was a very capable man. However, only with his faith, he could lead Israelites through the ten plagues in Egypt without harm, part the Red Sea to escape the army of Egypt and perform numerous miracles while leading Israelites in the desert. He inherited faith from his parents, but he was able to continue and perfect it as an inheritor. 

The same faith has been passed to us now. By faith, we could experience the same wonders from God as Moses. Not only that, but we could also enter the New Jerusalem in heaven that is greater than the promised land on earth that Moses couldn't enter. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)