Noah's Faith 

In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on that day all the fountains of the great deep burst forth, and the windows of the heavens were opened.  And rain fell upon the earth forty days and forty nights.  On the very same day Noah and his sons, Shem and Ham and Japheth, and Noah's wife and the three wives of his sons with them entered the ark (Genesis 7: 11 to 13) 

Indeed, with a flood like that, no one could survive.  The reason that Noah was saved from the flood was because Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his generation. Noah walked with God (Genesis 6:9).  Also it was described as below. 

even if these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they would deliver but their own lives by their righteousness, declares the Lord God. (Ezekiel 14: 14)

Noah was one of the three righteous men declared by God. We could learn a lot about Job in the Book of Job and Daniel in the Book of Daniel.  We learned that Noah was faithful to build the ark as God commended him, but we don't know much about how he learned to be faithful.   

Indeed, the Bible didn't illustrate Noah as much as Job and Daniel.  However, by reading the days that Noah spent in the ark, we may find something special.  In Genesis 8, it described what had happened outside of the ark and how many days for that to happen.  It also specified the specific date for each event.  So, from the beginning of the flood to the end, Noah kept track of the date.  It was like that the flood was not an end for men but a continuation of God's sovereignty.  Even though the world was gone, in Noah's mind God was still in charge of each date He made.  

The ark was not designed for comfort.  It had only one gate and one window.  Just imagine being stuck with a boat load of animals in such clogging space would drive everybody crazy.  Not only that, during that period, God stopped speaking to Noah.  However, Noah didn't get discouraged or lost faith.  Instead, he treated each day just like the days prior to the flood.   

This was because Noah didn't look things through his own view but through God's view.  He knew that God had His plan.  Just by looking through that tiny window on top of the ark, Noah knew that God was still looking at him because he was part of God's plan.  If we could learn from Noah that God has His plan on everyone whom He has saved, then we would not be afraid of any flood or storm.   Just like in Luke 8: 22 to 25 that Jesus calms the storm.  If we are focusing on Jesus, our savior, then no storm could harm us, it will only make us strong in faith, because we are all part of God's plan.  Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)