Peniel 

And Jacob was left alone. And a man wrestled with him until the breaking of the day.  When the man saw that he did not prevail against Jacob, he touched his hip socket, and Jacob's hip was put out of joint as he wrestled with him.  Then he said, “Let me go, for the day has broken.” But Jacob said, “I will not let you go unless you bless me.”  And he said to him, “What is your name?” And he said, “Jacob.”  Then he said, “Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel, for you have striven with God and with men, and have prevailed.”  Then Jacob asked him, “Please tell me your name.” But he said, “Why is it that you ask my name?” And there he blessed him.  So Jacob called the name of the place Peniel, saying, “For I have seen God face to face, and yet my life has been delivered.”  The sun rose upon him as he passed Penuel, limping because of his hip. (Genesis 32: 24 to 31) 

Jacob was afraid and distressed after hearing that Esau was coming to him with four hundred men.  After sending his family and everything else that he had across the stream, Jacob was left alone at the ford of Jabbok.  Then a man wrestled with him.  Even though Jacob was distressed, the man couldn't prevail.  Instead, Jacob was able to hold the man all night until he got the blessing from the man.  Then the man named Jacob Israel and blessed him. 

After the wrestling, Jacob had changed.  He not only had been lifted from his low point but also became a cripple.  God was using the wrestling to remind Jacob who he was.  To remind Jacob that he was able to strive with men and prevail, so that he was able to revive his faith and take control again.  In the meanwhile, God wanted to remind him that his faith was from God, not his own flesh.  So, God made him a cripple.  Jacob strived with the hostile situations on earth arranged by God from heaven and prevailed, that's why God said Jacob had striven with God and men and had prevailed.  From the wrestling, Jacob realized that it was all from God.  That's why he said that he had seen God face to face. 

Oftentimes God wants to lift our faith by putting us in some difficult situations.  Like Jacob, by wrestling with the situations arranged by God so that we could meet with God face to face.  In Colossians, Paul says: 

Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is, the church, of which I became a minister according to the stewardship from God that was given to me for you, to make the word of God fully known, the mystery hidden for ages and generations but now revealed to his saints. (Colossians 1: 24 to 26) 

Jesus died for our sins on the cross.  He suffered a painful and shameful death.  Because of his sacrifice, we could be saved.  Paul realized that the reason for our sufferings was not because of us needing more salvations, but because of building the church, his body.  Jesus gave us his body as the foundation.  To build the body on the foundation, we need to carry our own cross to follow Jesus.  We may be suffering by carrying the cross.  Yet, through the sufferings, we meet with God face to face.  That's why Paul rejoiced in his sufferings as what he had said below. 

So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day.  For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison, (Second Corinthians 4: 16 17) 

Like Jacob, our outer self may be wasting away, but our inner self and faith is being renewed day by day.  Emmanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)

 