Perez and Zerah 

When the time of her labor came, there were twins in her womb.  And when she was in labor, one put out a hand, and the midwife took and tied a scarlet thread on his hand, saying, “This one came out first.”  But as he drew back his hand, behold, his brother came out.  And she said, “What a breach you have made for yourself!”  Therefore his name was called Perez.  Afterward his brother came out with the scarlet thread on his hand, and his name was called Zerah. (Genesis 38: 27 to 30) 

Perez and Zerah were twins born by Tamar. Just like Esau and Jacob, Perez and Zerah were fighting to be the firstborn in their mother's womb. Yet, there are differences between those twins. As for Esau and Jacob, both families grew up to be big nations, Edom and Israel. Edom, red, was named because Esau was born red all over. Also, he sold his birthright to Jacob for a bowl of red bean soup. Israel, let God prevail, was the name given by God to Jacob. However, only Jacob was recorded in the genealogy of Jesus Christ. As for Perez and Zerah, they were not as big nor famous as Esau and Jacob in the Bible. Yet, both of their names were recorded in the genealogy of Jesus Christ. So, what's so special about them? 

Based on the description, it's not easy to determine between Perez and Zerah who should be the firstborn. By the midwife, Zerah should be the firstborn. Yet, Zerah drew back his hand and let Perez come out first. So, either could be the firstborn. How could that be? By our definition, there should be only one firstborn. In the Bible, Jesus described it as below. 

Jesus said to them, “Truly, I say to you, in the new world, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands, for my name's sake, will receive a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life. But many who are first will be last, and the last first. (Matthew 19: 28 to 30) 

The name of Perez means breach or burst forth. By the midwife, Zerah should be the firstborn. However, Perez's bursting forth changed that. Now, the last became first and the first last. Not only that, but Perez was also chosen as the father of Jesus Christ's ancestors. It's all because Perez could leave the family behind to get the firstborn inheritance entitlement. Yet, God didn't forget about Zerah. His name is also listed in the genealogy of Jesus Christ. In the Bible, Jesus gave a parable of vineyard as described below. 

And when those hired about the eleventh hour came, each of them received a denarius. Now when those hired first came, they thought they would receive more, but each of them also received a denarius. And on receiving it they grumbled at the master of the house, saying, ‘These last worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden of the day and the scorching heat.’ But he replied to one of them, ‘Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for a denarius? Take what belongs to you and go. I choose to give to this last worker as I give to you. Am I not allowed to do what I choose with what belongs to me? Or do you begrudge my generosity?’ So the last will be first, and the first last.” (Matthew 20: 9 to 16) 

Zerah might not be as strong or capable as his brother Perez. So, he couldn't come out first from his mother's womb, even though he had tried. All he could do was to reach out a hand then was pulled back. It's just like the laborers in Jesus' vineyard parable. The laborers who got hired last could be because they were not as strong or capable as those who got hired first. However, they were willing to keep waiting even though they might not get hired after all. Because of their desire and perseverance, God rewarded them the same as those who were stronger and more capable. 

The name of Zerah means glowing; dawn. Since he was mentioned in the genealogy of Jesus Christ not due to his own sake but because of God's mercy and generosity, it would remind us of God's glory and hope every time we read his name. 

Nonetheless, the first and last could be determined by our attitude. This is especially true in the new world, the kingdom of heaven, as Jesus described below. 

Truly, I say to you, among those born of women there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. From the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence, and the violent take it by force. (Matthew 11: 11 12) 

So, it all depends on how violent we are willing to give up this world to enter the new world, such as to leave houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands, for the name of Jesus Christ. With this kind of desire and God's mercy and generosity through Jesus Christ, we shall prevail. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)