Rachel's First Child 

Then God remembered Rachel, and God listened to her and opened her womb.  She conceived and bore a son and said, “God has taken away my reproach.”  And she called his name Joseph, saying, “May the Lord add to me another son!” As soon as Rachel had borne Joseph, Jacob said to Laban, “Send me away, that I may go to my own home and country.  Give me my wives and my children for whom I have served you, that I may go, for you know the service that I have given you.”  But Laban said to him, “If I have found favor in your sight, I have learned by divination that the Lord has blessed me because of you.  Name your wages, and I will give it.” (Genesis 30: 22 to 28) 

It's a shame that a woman couldn't conceive in ancient times.  So, Rachel felt that she was left out by God.  However, for Jacob, it's a blessing.  During the waiting, Jacob had ten sons by Leah and two concubines, Zilpah and Bilhah.  This was all God's plan.  Without giving Rachel a child, Jocob wouldn't think of traveling back to his own home and country.  Without traveling, all the women in the family could give birth with no disturbance.  Not like Rachel, who died giving birth while the family were traveling back to Jacob's hometown. (Genesis 35: 16 to 19). Also, Leah, Zilpah and Bilhah never gave birth again after moving. 

According to the Bible, Joseph later served Pharaoh and oversaw Egypt at the age of 30 (Genesis 41: 46).  After seven years of abundance and two years of famine (Genesis 45: 6) Joseph brought Jacob and all his offspring to Egypt (Genesis 46: 6) At that time, Jacob was 130 years old (Genesis 47: 9).  So, when Joseph was born, Jacob was already ninety-three years old.  It's been a long wait for Rachel to have her first child.  Especially, when Jacob was already that old.   

It seemed that God had forgotten about Rachel.  God didn't.  God remembered Rachel.  We just need to realize that God didn't work according to our thoughts and ways as the Bible described below. 

For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord.  For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts. (Isaiah 55: 8 9) 

Then how do we get the wisdom to know God's thoughts and ways?  In his letter, Paul wrote as below. 

But, as it is written, “What no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love him”— these things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God.  For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit of that person, which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God.  Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God.  And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual. (First Corinthians 2: 9 to 13) 

To comprehend God's thoughts, we need to be spiritual.  Paul also wrote below. 

For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.  (Galatians 5: 17) 

So, to be spiritual, we need to be freed from the flesh.  To do so, we need to be familiar with God's word and let the word pierce us as the Bible described below. 

For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.  And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. (Hebrews 4: 12 13) 

If the word of God could pierce us then we would no longer be bound by the desires of our own flesh.  We would no longer try to comprehend God's thoughts and ways according to our own knowledge of good and evil but according to the spirit and faith from Jesus Christ.  We would then see the ladder connecting us with heaven like Jacob for God to reveal Himself.  Emmanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)