The Water Turned to Blood Plague

Moses and Aaron did as the Lord commanded. In the sight of Pharaoh and in the sight of his servants he lifted up the staff and struck the water in the Nile, and all the water in the Nile turned into blood. And the fish in the Nile died, and the Nile stank, so that the Egyptians could not drink water from the Nile. There was blood throughout all the land of Egypt. But the magicians of Egypt did the same by their secret arts. So Pharaoh's heart remained hardened, and he would not listen to them, as the Lord had said. Pharaoh turned and went into his house, and he did not take even this to heart. And all the Egyptians dug along the Nile for water to drink, for they could not drink the water of the Nile. Seven full days passed after the Lord had struck the Nile. (Exodus 7: 20 to 25)

The first plague that God commanded Moses and Aaron to do was turning all the water in Egypt into blood, including their rivers, canals, ponds, and all their pools of water, even in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone. So, they had to dig along the Nile for water to drink. Yet that didn't convince Pharaoh to let Israel go because the magicians of Egypt could do the same. However, it seemed that a more critical thing would be to clear the water back. However, most likely, the magicians couldn't do that. Couple of the same plagues were described in the final judgement days in the Bible below.

The second angel blew his trumpet, and something like a great mountain, burning with fire, was thrown into the sea, and a third of the sea became blood. A third of the living creatures in the sea died, and a third of the ships were destroyed. (Revelation 8: 8 9)

The second angel poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became like the blood of a corpse, and every living thing died that was in the sea. The third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of water, and they became blood. And I heard the angel in charge of the waters say, “Just are you, O Holy One, who is and who was, for you brought these judgments. For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and you have given them blood to drink. It is what they deserve!” (Revelation 16: 3 to 6)

Both the water and blood are essential to life. People were so used to them they took them for granted until they were turned against them by God. As specified in Revelation, the water is turned to blood because people have shed the blood of saints and prophets. For the same reason, God commanded Moses and Aaron to turn the water to blood because of the atrocities that Egyptians did toward the Israelites and their male firstborns. It may seem that God is turning water to blood to discipline people. Actually, it's God's mercy toward people, so that people would know He is the Lord and repent for their atrocities. As a matter of fact, the water and blood could be our salvations as described below.

But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water. He who saw it has borne witness—his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth—that you also may believe. For these things took place that the Scripture might be fulfilled: “Not one of his bones will be broken.” And again another Scripture says, “They will look on him whom they have pierced.” (John 19: 33 to 37)

The Bible continues to describe it further as below. 

This is he who came by water and blood—Jesus Christ; not by the water only but by the water and the blood. And the Spirit is the one who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth. For there are three that testify: the Spirit and the water and the blood; and these three agree. If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater, for this is the testimony of God that he has borne concerning his Son. Whoever believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. (First John 5: 6 to 12)

For nonbelievers, the water and blood could be a curse. However, for believers, the blood and water of Jesus Christ are not only salvation but also a testimony for eternal life from God. Immanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)