The Son 

Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high, having become as much superior to angels as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. (Hebrews 1: 1 to 4) 

It's noticeable that there is no mention of the author of Hebrews. This is unique, especially in the New Testament. We know that the Old Testament was written by Israelis. Even though sometimes it didn't mention the author of the book, there is no doubt who wrote the book because it was passed on by Israelites from generation to generation. However, since there were so many articles or letters written during the New Testament by different people, there was no telling if an article was trustworthy unless we knew who the author was. Well, except the Book of Hebrews. 

It has been debated who wrote it even nowadays. Most people think that it was written by apostle Paul because it mentioned "the righteous one shall live by faith" and some other phrases just like Paul. However, people who disagreed could also raise some opposite points from the book. Some other potential authors, such as Barnabas, Apollos, Luke, etc. were also being mentioned. 

However, one thing for sure is that this book was addressed to Jews. Hebrews means "to pass over". Jews referred to themselves as Hebrews because their forefather Abraham was the first one who passed over the big river and entered Canaan. If the book was dressed to Jews, then why do we gentiles need to read it? The reason is simple. Firstly, this book talks about faith. Faith applies to everyone, even though the author explained it based on the Old Testament, especially the book of Genesis since Jews are very familiar with it. Secondly, the name of Hebrew is no longer limited to Jews. We could refer to anyone who was saved just like having passed the river and entered the promised land.   

Maybe that's why it didn't mention about the author so that readers can focus on the content of the book instead of the author's background to furthermore understand faith from a spiritual point of view rather than a human cultural experience or view. If we have gone through Genesis, then we won't feel strange with scriptures mentioned in this book. 

So, what is faith? In Matthews, Jesus cursed a fig tree for not bearing fruits and the tree withered right away. The disciples were marveled. Then Jesus said as below. 

Truly, I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, ‘Be taken up and thrown into the sea,’ it will happen. And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive, if you have faith. (Matthew 21: 21 22) 

At first, Hebrews mentioned who Jesus was. He is the son of God. In the Old Testament, Jews also called angels sons of God. So, the author needed to emphasize that not only this son is appointed heir to all things, but through him the world was created. If the world was created through him then it's not difficult for us to believe that Jesus Christ could do those marvelous things. However, for Jews, the author needed to use the Old Testament scriptures to explain why Jesus is the son who is superior to the rest. So, it's a big advantage for us to accept the superiority of Jesus Christ as the Son. We may have some other doubts, but it won't be about the Son, because if we believe that we are saved through Jesus Christ then we already believe Jesus Christ is the Son as a solid foundation. Jesus also promised that if we have faith then we could do marvelous things as he did. Since we already have Jesus' salvation as the foundation, the next thing is to find out how to build our faith on top of the foundation. That's what the book of Hebrews is trying to teach us. So, Hebrews is a book for everybody. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)