The Mounts 

For you have not come to what may be touched, a blazing fire and darkness and gloom and a tempest and the sound of a trumpet and a voice whose words made the hearers beg that no further messages be spoken to them. For they could not endure the order that was given, “If even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned.” Indeed, so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, “I tremble with fear.” But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festal gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. (Hebrews 12: 18 to 24) 

People often thought that God was beyond our comprehension because we couldn’t see Him. As matter of fact, it’s clearly described in the Bible as below. 

For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely, his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived, ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse. (Romans 1: 19 20) 

So, God’s eternal power and divine nature were never hidden from our plain sights. When God revealed His will He did it the way that everybody could see, such as on Mount Sinai and Mount Zion. Mount Sinai was where God commanded Moses to present His Ten Commandments to Israelites. As described above, it was a fearful scene because that’s the nature of the law. No sinner could stand the judgement of the law. Mount Zion is different. It is in Jerusalem, but it’s often referred to as God's reign and dwelling place as described in the Bible below. 

and many peoples shall come, and say: “Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways and that we may walk in his paths.” For out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. (Isaiah 2: 3) 

Behold, I and the children whom the Lord has given me are signs and portents in Israel from the Lord of hosts, who dwells on Mount Zion. (Isaiah 8: 18) 

At that time tribute will be brought to the Lord of hosts from a people tall and smooth, from a people feared near and far, a nation mighty and conquering, whose land the rivers divide, to Mount Zion, the place of the name of the Lord of hosts. (Isaiah 18: 7) 

Zion also symbolizes God's faithfulness and loves as described below. 

Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion, which cannot be moved, but abides forever. (Psalm 125: 1) 

On the holy mount stands the city he founded; the Lord loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwelling places of Jacob. (Psalm 87: 1 2) 

The Bible describes God as below. 

Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne; steadfast love and faithfulness go before you. (Psalm 89: 14) 

So, Mount Sinai and Mount Zion seemed to represent two opposite aspects of God and were given as described in the Bible below. 

For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. (John 1: 17 18) 

Yet, Christ not only represents grace but also affirmed and fulfilled the law as he claimed below. 

Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. (Matthew 5: 17) 

That's why Christ is the mediator of the new covenant because he fulfilled the law for us. If we are cleansed by his blood, then we can be justified to inherit his righteousness. It's better than Abel's blood. Because Abel's blood could only cleanse for himself. Furthermore, Christ promised us of his spiritual life as described below. 

It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. (John 6: 63) 

With the Spirit of Christ, we can be set free as described below. 

Yes, to this day whenever Moses is read a veil lies over their hearts. But when one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed. Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. (Second Corinthians 3: 15 to 17) 

The law teaches us fear while the Spirit sets us free. So, our mind and life are no longer bound by earth but are hidden with Christ in God as described below. 

Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. (Colossians 3: 2) 

Therefore, we can think of things that are above, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festal gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)