The Eternal Heritance 

Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant. For where a will is involved, the death of the one who made it must be established. For a will takes effect only at death, since it is not in force as long as the one who made it is alive. Therefore not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood. For when every commandment of the law had been declared by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people, saying, “This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded for you.” And in the same way he sprinkled with the blood both the tent and all the vessels used in worship. Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins. (Hebrews 9: 15 to 22) 

There were various reasons for people to come to Christ. I have heard that people came to Christ because of his abundant love, or, through Christ they could go to heaven. I even heard one who came to Christ because Christ could cast out demons. So, is that all?  

Here, it states an eternal inheritance and that Christ is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance. So, what is eternal inheritance? Could it meet our needs and expectations? How could we get it? God promised to be Levi's inheritance as described below. 

At that time the Lord set apart the tribe of Levi to carry the ark of the covenant of the Lord to stand before the Lord to minister to him and to bless in his name, to this day. Therefore Levi has no portion or inheritance with his brothers. The Lord is his inheritance, as the Lord your God said to him. (Deuteronomy 10: 8 9) 

David also described God as his inheritance below. 

The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup; you hold my lot. The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places; indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance. I bless the Lord who gives me counsel; in the night also my heart instructs me. I have set the Lord always before me; because he is at my right hand, I shall not be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad, and my whole being rejoices; my flesh also dwells secure. For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, or let your holy one see corruption. You make known to me the path of life; in your presence there is fullness of joy; at your right hand are pleasures forevermore. (Psalm 16: 5 to 11) 

So, what does it mean for God to be an inheritance? What is God's inheritance? We know that it is not earthly inheritance because God said that Levi has no portion with his brothers. The Bible describes God as below and people who walk in His light. 

Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne; steadfast love and faithfulness go before you. Blessed are the people who know the festal shout, who walk, O Lord, in the light of your face, who exult in your name all the day and in your righteousness are exalted. For you are the glory of their strength; by your favor our horn is exalted.(Psalm 89: 14 to 17) 

So, God has four characters, righteousness, justice, steadfast love and faithfulness. That's God's inheritance. That's why David could claim that God is his chosen portion, his cup, holds his lot to be his beautiful inheritance. Because with God's steadfast love, the lines have fallen for David in pleasant places. With God's righteousness, God gives David counsel; in the night also his heart instructs him. With God's faithfulness, God will not abandon David's soul to Sheol, or let God's holy one see corruption. With God's justice, God makes known to him the path of life. By claiming God's inheritance, David could exult that in God's presence there is fullness of joy; at God's right hand are pleasures forevermore.  

If we walk in the light of His face, then we could exult in His name and be exalted in His righteousness too. Since God's inheritance of righteousness, justice, steadfast love and faithfulness are beyond this world, we need to claim it by faith. Also, it is bound by the new covenant with Christ being the mediator. So, the new covenant was made for us like a will by Christ. Since under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins, the new covenant is no exception. Not only that it is purified with blood but also with the blood of Christ. Now, the will takes effect at the death of Christ. So, the blood of Christ reassures our faith of eternal inheritance. When we come to Christ, not only we are cleansed by his blood and saved, but also being assured with God's eternal inheritance. Then we could claim my heart is glad, and my whole being rejoices; my flesh also dwells secure like David. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)