The Salvation 

Therefore, we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away from it. For since the message declared by angels proved to be reliable, and every transgression or disobedience received a just retribution, how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard, while God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to his will. (Hebrews 2: 1 to 4) 

After emphasizing Jesus is the son of God, the author of Hebrews warned Israelites to pay close attention after receiving the salvation.  We don't need to look far for what he meant.  In the Book of Malachi, the prophet stated as below. 

“I have loved you,” says the Lord. But you say, “How have you loved us?” (Malachi 1: 1) 

“A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I am a father, where is my honor? And if I am a master, where is my fear? says the Lord of hosts to you, O priests, who despise my name. But you say, ‘How have we despised your name?’ By offering polluted food upon my altar. But you say, ‘How have we polluted you?’ By saying that the Lord's table may be despised. When you offer blind animals in sacrifice, is that not evil? And when you offer those that are lame or sick, is that not evil? Present that to your governor; will he accept you or show you favor? says the Lord of hosts. (Malachi 1: 6 to 8) 

In the Old Testament Israelites received God’s salvation through the blood of sacrifices. After a while this salvation seemed to become a burden and formality. In the New Testament we received God’s salvation through the blood of Jesus Christ, the lamb of God. Oftentimes, we were just like Israelites. We felt the salvation was no longer fresh or reliable. In other words, we gradually lost faith in salvation. So, we began to behave and think like nonbelievers. We reacted to crises like them, complained like them, worrisome like them. The salvation didn’t seem to make much difference in life anymore. 

This is what I learned from taking care of my mom after she has fallen and needed a hip replacement. The surgery went successfully. She didn’t feel any pain after the surgery. The nurses were amazed every time they checked on her. Yet, she doubted that God still loves her. She questioned that she only tripped, not even a fall. How could that break her hip? She showed frustration. She couldn’t sleep. 

Then my niece and her husband visited my mom in the hospital and told her what she didn’t know. At first, my nephew was with her when she fell. Right away, he called the fire department to send her to Methodist Hospital at Katy because based on his PT expertise that’s the best option. Then my mom was assigned to a surgeon to schedule for the operation the next morning. However, my nephew and my daughter, both are medical professionals, wanted to find the best surgeon for her. They did find the best surgeon, but they didn’t know if the surgeon would be available since that was the holiday season. At the same time, my other niece contacted a church doctor friend she got acquainted with just two weeks ago. The doctor recommended the same surgeon that my daughter and nephew have found. So, my niece's doctor friend called the surgeon, and the surgeon contacted the hospital to take over the operation right away. That made the hospital think my mom must be a VIP. The surgery did prove that he is well trained even though he is young as my daughter described. As for the original surgeon, my niece said he is not good. Couple of his patients had to go back for a second operation because of the mistake he made. 

Bad things happened to us just like to people of the world. If we know all the hidden facts, then we would know that God had already planned the best for us. Just like it said in Psalm as below. 

Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me. (Psalm 23: 4) 

That’s the power of God's salvation. Not only it saves our soul but also our flesh. Whenever we feel weak and disappointed and lose faith in salvation then just remember what God promised in the Bible as below. 

For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope. Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you. (Jeremiah 29: 11 12) 

Apostle Paul also described in the Bible as below. 

And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. (Romans 8: 28) 

They all help us to build faith. God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to his will as the Hebrews author describes to build our faith in God. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)