The Sanctified 

But in these sacrifices, there is a reminder of sins every year. For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, “Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body have you prepared for me; in burnt offerings and sin offerings you have taken no pleasure. Then I said, ‘Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as it is written of me in the scroll of the book.’” When he said above, “You have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings” (these are offered according to the law), then he added, “Behold, I have come to do your will.” He does away with the first in order to establish the second. And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. (Hebrews 10: 3 to 10) 

In the late 90's, I was invited to a panel discussion in a Christian conference. In the meeting, I mentioned that by accepting Christ Jesus, we are not only saved but also sanctified and perfected by his blood. Then a gentleman immediately stood up and loudly protested my statement. I replied that it is not my words but clearly stated in the Bible. I then read this passage of Hebrews. He continued to protest by saying that even so, he still wouldn't believe that. To my surprise that no one in the meeting responded or commented on his protest. It was like the whole participants agreed with the gentleman that it was impossible for us to be sanctified and perfected. Indeed, it’s hard to imagine that we could be sanctified or perfected since we are constantly tempted by the world and sins. We might feel that there is no end or no way out even with all the efforts as apostle Paul described below. 

So I find it to be a law that when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand. For I delight in the law of God, in my inner being, but I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from this body of death? (Romans 7: 21 to 24) 

God allowed Israelites to redeem sins with sacrifices and offerings. Yet, they were not able to take away their sins. Then why the sacrifices and offerings? Because they were demanded by God. God demanded the blood of the sacrifices for sins to justify His righteousness. So, if God says that Israelites could be justified by the blood of sacrificed animals, then the blood of Christ could not only justify us for God's righteousness but also sanctify and perfect us since the blood of Christ is way too holy than the blood of animals. So, it's up to God not us to justify His righteousness. Even though we didn't feel sanctified, yet we are sanctified as Paul described below. 

As it is, I rejoice, not because you were grieved, but because you were grieved into repenting. For you felt a godly grief, so that you suffered no loss through us. For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death. For see what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you, but also what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal, what punishment! At every point you have proved yourselves innocent in the matter. (Second Corinthians 7: 9 to 11) 

Because we are sanctified, hence we were grieved into repenting. Then the more we confess our sins, the more we would feel sanctified as described below. 

But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. (First John 1: 7 to 10) 

Sanctification doesn’t mean that our life will be free of toil, temptations or danger. We still need to pray for that as it says in the Lord’s Prayer. 

Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil (Matthew 6: 10 to 13)  

Apostle Paul says that sinners are justified by grace as a gift.   

for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus (Romans 3: 23 24) 

Also, he says that the gift is eternal life as below. 

For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (Romans 6: 23) 

The blood of Christ would not only justify us but also sanctify us to lead us to eternal life. It's all free. All we need is to accept it with faith. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)