The Final Plague Warning

Speak now in the hearing of the people, that they ask, every man of his neighbor and every woman of her neighbor, for silver and gold jewelry.” And the Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover, the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh's servants and in the sight of the people. So Moses said, “Thus says the Lord: ‘About midnight I will go out in the midst of Egypt, and every firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sits on his throne, even to the firstborn of the slave girl who is behind the hand mill, and all the firstborn of the cattle. There shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there has never been, nor ever will be again. But not a dog shall growl against any of the people of Israel, either man or beast, that you may know that the Lord makes a distinction between Egypt and Israel.’ And all these your servants shall come down to me and bow down to me, saying, ‘Get out, you and all the people who follow you.’ And after that I will go out.” And he went out from Pharaoh in hot anger. Then the Lord said to Moses, “Pharaoh will not listen to you, that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt.” (Exodus 11: 2 to 9)

Before bringing one more plague upon Pharaoh and upon Egypt, God told Moses to warn Pharaoh about the final plague of killing every firstborn in Egypt and to tell Israelites to collect a fortune from the Egyptians. We might wonder that after those plagues, asking for any favor from the Egyptians would be impossible. Yet that's exactly what God had told Moses to do in the first place before sending him back to Egypt as described below.

And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians; and when you go, you shall not go empty, but each woman shall ask of her neighbor, and any woman who lives in her house, for silver and gold jewelry, and for clothing. You shall put them on your sons and on your daughters. So you shall plunder the Egyptians. (Exodus 3: 21 22)

That's why God performed those many miracle plagues. Even though the Egyptian magicians could perform some of them but not all of them. The Egyptians had many idols, yet through those miracle plagues, they knew those idols were no match to the Israelites God. So, when the Israelites were asking for their fortune, the Egyptians were convinced and wouldn't dare to resist but to cooperate. God also told Moses beforehand about the plague of killing the Egyptians firstborns as described below.

And the Lord said to Moses, “When you go back to Egypt, see that you do before Pharaoh all the miracles that I have put in your power. But I will harden his heart, so that he will not let the people go. Then you shall say to Pharaoh, ‘Thus says the Lord, Israel is my firstborn son, and I say to you, “Let my son go that he may serve me.” If you refuse to let him go, behold, I will kill your firstborn son.’” (Exodus 4: 21 to 23)

That's why God had hardened Pharaoh's heart after each plague, so that God could perform His last plague to kill the Egyptians firstborns. That's because after being suppressed by Egyptians for so many years, Israelite were not only suffered physically but also made a fortune for the Egyptians. Also, during the suppression, Israelites had lost who knows how many of their firstborns killed by the Egyptians. So, when they cried out to God for delivering, God not only made the Egyptians pay for what they had owed to the Israelites, but also made the Egyptians pay back with their own firstborns for the Israelites firstborns they had killed. This is what was described in the Bible below.

Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, “Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord.” (Romans 12: 19)

So, God would not only deliver Israelites out of Egypt but also get for what they deserved. God wanted them to learn that He is not only almighty but also justice because He is the Lord. Because of Jesus Christ, the same message applies to us too now. Emmanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)