The Love 

Let brotherly love continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. Remember those who are in prison, as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated, since you also are in the body. Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous. Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, “I will never leave you nor forsake you.” So we can confidently say, “The Lord is my helper; I will not fear; what can man do to me?” Remember your leaders, those who spoke to you the word of God. Consider the outcome of their way of life, and imitate their faith. (Hebrews 13: 1 to 7) 

There was a case in Austin that Texas Attorney General was suing a church that is the largest provider of homeless services in Travis County, alleging its South Austin headquarters has become a “magnet” for drug and criminal activity and poses a “drastic” threat to the surrounding neighborhood, including an elementary school. 

The Church said the center will continue to do its work and is “committed to being a good neighbor” to all residents, businesses and the Elementary, and to “take care of the poor”. 

The suit alleges the Church to move operations elsewhere. Along with the temporary injunction, the state office called for the Church to not be allowed to operate within one thousand feet of a school or playground and to remain closed for one year.  

In addition to the homeless issue, illegal aliens are also a reality check between the helping hands and the safety of society. It may seem that brotherly love will not solve the issue but cause more conflicts among the body. Yet, Christ warned us that he will judge us by how we share our love as described below. 

“When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left. Then the King will say to those on his right, ‘Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me.’ Then the righteous will answer him, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? And when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you?’ And the King will answer them, ‘Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.’ 

“Then he will say to those on his left, ‘Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry and you gave me no food, I was thirsty and you gave me no drink, I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison and you did not visit me.’ (Matthew 25: 31 to 43) 

So, the love that we share doesn't need to be in a certain form or value. It could be as insignificant as a drink. Just a spontaneous sharing of the love from God as described below. 

So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been perfected in love. We love because he first loved us. (First John 4: 16 to 19) 

We love because God first loved us. With God’s love, we shall have faith no longer fear paying for any trouble caused by good deeds. Not only that, but God's love can also be applied to our marriage and value system. With God's love, we no longer need the sexually immoral and adulterous in our marital relationship. With God's love, we don't need to depend on material things to satisfy us either, so that our life will be free from love of money. 

Furthermore, brotherly love is not just a suggestion but a command from Christ as described below. 

A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another. (John 13: 34 35) 

If our faith keeps us love one another then we are indeed the disciple of Christ. As his disciple when he comes, not only we can inherit eternal life but also enter the New Jerusalem to share his glory forever. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)