The Word 

For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. (Hebrew 4: 12 to 16) 

As a child in a Christian family, I learned about God’s words at an early age. Especially, I learned that if I obey the word of God, then nothing would go wrong. However, I didn’t get baptized until the summer vacation in my university sophomore year. The reason that I procrastinated to be baptized was because of one question - why did God choose only Israelites not us as His chosen people? Because of that, we missed the opportunity to observe and experience God’s wonders and miracles as Israelites did in the Sinai Desert for forty years. God has not been fair to us. 

Since I couldn't get my question answered after so many years, I decided that there was no point in waiting. So, I was baptized. The experience that Israelites had in the Sinai desert didn't help them to trust and obey God better. Instead, for forty years, they constantly tested and provoked God as described below. 

do not harden your hearts, as at Meribah, as on the day at Massah in the wilderness, when your fathers put me to the test and put me to the proof, though they had seen my work. For forty years I loathed that generation and said, “They are a people who go astray in their heart, and they have not known my ways. ”Therefore I swore in my wrath, 'They shall not enter my rest.'” (Psalm 95: 8 to 11) 

Even though they had witnessed the work of the Almighty for forty years, their heart still went astray. The experience didn't benefit them. Being the offspring of Abraham didn't help them either. That's because God's words didn't pierce their heart. The Bible described it as below. 

But it is not as though the word of God has failed. For not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel,  and not all are children of Abraham because they are his offspring, but “Through Isaac shall your offspring be named.” This means that it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are counted as offspring. (Romans 9: 6 to 8) 

So, the sight and being the offspring couldn't help them to be true Israelis, but the promise of God. We couldn't justify ourselves by our own sight and flesh for God's righteousness since they are from our own knowledge of good and evil, the sin. We need to accept God's word by faith. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is the Word as described below. 

And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. (John 1: 14) 

By accepting Christ by faith, we receive the Word. The Word became our flesh. Jesus Christ is not only the word of God, but also our high priest. Just as described by the writer of Hebrews, the word would be sharper than any two-edged sword piercing the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. Then a great high priest who can sympathize with our weaknesses to draw us near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.  

It may take us a while to experience the eye opener of the Word. However, when the time comes, the Word will open our eyes as described in the Bible below. 

That very day two of them were going to a village named Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem, and they were talking with each other about all these things that had happened. While they were talking and discussing together, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were kept from recognizing him. (Luke 24: 13 to 16) 

When he was at table with them, he took the bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to them. And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him. And he vanished from their sight. They said to each other, “Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he opened to us the Scriptures?” (Luke 24: 30 to 32) 

Indeed, the Word worked then; it will work now because the Word never fails. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)