The Holy Places 

Now even the first covenant had regulations for worship and an earthly place of holiness. For a tent was prepared, the first section, in which were the lampstand and the table and the bread of the Presence. It is called the Holy Place. Behind the second curtain was a second section called the Most Holy Place, having the golden altar of incense and the ark of the covenant covered on all sides with gold, in which was a golden urn holding the manna, and Aaron's staff that budded, and the tablets of the covenant. Above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy seat. Of these things we cannot now speak in detail. 

These preparations having thus been made, the priests go regularly into the first section, performing their ritual duties, but into the second only the high priest goes, and he but once a year, and not without taking blood, which he offers for himself and for the unintentional sins of the people. By this the Holy Spirit indicates that the way into the holy places is not yet opened as long as the first section is still standing (which is symbolic for the present age). According to this arrangement, gifts and sacrifices are offered that cannot perfect the conscience of the worshiper, but deal only with food and drink and various washings, regulations for the body imposed until the time of reformation. (Hebrews 9: 1 to 10) 

In Exodus, God commanded Moses to build the holy tent, or tabernacle. It had two sections, the Holy Place and the Most Holy Place. The Holy Place was 15 feet by 15 feet. The Most Holy Place was 15 feet by 30 feet. In the Most Holy Place, there was the ark. Above it was the mercy seat between the cherubim for God to dwell. It’s not big at all by any measurement. No wonder, Solomon and Herod tried to build huge holy temples for God. Yet, the Bible described it as below. 

Thus says the Lord: “Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool; what is the house that you would build for me, and what is the place of my rest?” (Isaiah 66: 1) 

God didn’t care about the size of His dwelling tabernacle, but His righteousness and holiness. So, there was a thick curtain to divide the two sections and only the high priest could enter the Most Holy Place once a year. However, it was changed when Jesus died on the cross as described in the Bible. 

And behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom. And the earth shook, and the rocks were split. The tombs also were opened. And many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised, and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection they went into the holy city and appeared to many. When the centurion and those who were with him, keeping watch over Jesus, saw the earthquake and what took place, they were filled with awe and said, “Truly this was the Son of God!” (Matthew 27: 51 to 54) 

As before, nobody could enter the Most Holy Place but the high priest because there was a thick curtain of the second Holy Place blocking the way. For Israelites, that’s the way for centuries. For us, the passage to the Most Holy Place has been opened because the separation curtain has been torn down when Jesus Christ was sacrificed on the cross. We no longer needed to wait for a year to cleanse our unintentional sins as Israelis. Because of Christ Jesus, we could come to the mercy seat in the Most Holy Place any time directly. We could ask for God’s mercy if we have the faith that we are saved by the blood of Jesus Christ. 

The Bible also described a sanctuary tent in heaven as below. 

After this I looked, and the sanctuary of the tent of witness in heaven was opened, and out of the sanctuary came the seven angels with the seven plagues, clothed in pure, bright linen, with golden sashes around their chests. And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God who lives forever and ever, and the sanctuary was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no one could enter the sanctuary until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished. (Revelation 15: 5 to 8) 

The earthly holy tent or temples were destroyed a long time ago. However, the heavenly sanctuary tent will be lasting forever. It has the ark to witness God's covenant with men too. So, the passage to the mercy seat that Christ Jesus opened for us will be lasting forever too. All we need to do is to have faith that we are cleansed by the blood of the forever High Priest, Christ Jesus. Emmanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)