The Heavenly Things 

Thus, it was necessary for the copies of the heavenly things to be purified with these rites, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. For Christ has entered, not into holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true things, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf. Nor was it to offer himself repeatedly, as the high priest enters the holy places every year with blood not his own, for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, he has appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him. (Hebrews 9: 23 to 28) 

Prior to the New Covenant, God has already made four covenants as described below. 

The Noahic Covenant with Noah - "For behold, I will bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh in which is the breath of life under heaven. Everything that is on the earth shall die. But I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall come into the ark, you, your sons, your wife, and your sons' wives with you.” (Genesis 6: 17 18) 

The Abrahamic Covenant with Abraham - On that day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, “To your offspring I give this land, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates, the land of the Kenites, the Kenizzites, the Kadmonites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rephaim, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Girgashites and the Jebusites.” (Genesis 15: 18 to 21) 

The Mosaic Covenant with Moses and Israelites - And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, that is, the Ten Commandments, and he wrote them on two tablets of stone. And the Lord commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and rules, that you might do them in the land that you are going over to possess. (Deuteronomy 4: 13 14) 

The Davidic Covenant with David and Solomon - And as for you, if you will walk before me as David your father walked, doing according to all that I have commanded you and keeping my statutes and my rules, then I will establish your royal throne, as I covenanted with David your father, saying, ‘You shall not lack a man to rule Israel.’ (Second Chronicles 7: 17 18) 

All those covenants were designated for redemption. To redeem sins, they all involved blood.  Because only blood can purify sins. However, only the New Covenant would last forever.  Because not only it was mediated by the Holy High Priest Christ himself with his own holy blood but also present on our behalf in front of God in heaven.  It is also described in the Bible as below. 

And between the throne and the four living creatures and among the elders I saw a Lamb standing, as though it had been slain, with seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. And he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne. And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each holding a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song, saying, “Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation, and you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth.” (Revelation 5: 6 to 10) 

The blood not only ransomed us but also made us a kingdom and priests to our God to reign on the earth. Jesus Christ himself also proclaimed the fulfillment of the New Covenant salvation at the synagogue on the Sabbath day as described below. 

And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written, “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor.” And he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him. And he began to say to them, “Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing.” (Luke 4: 17 to 21) 

In his prophecy, Isaiah not only prophesied the blessings for Christ’s first coming as Jesus had read, but also the blessings for Christ’s second coming which are even more abundant and glorious. If we are already saved by Christ’s first coming redemption, then we should be waiting eagerly more for the heavenly glory of his second coming. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)