The Tenth Plague and Exodus

At midnight the Lord struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in the dungeon, and all the firstborn of the livestock. And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he and all his servants and all the Egyptians. And there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where someone was not dead. Then he summoned Moses and Aaron by night and said, “Up, go out from among my people, both you and the people of Israel; and go, serve the Lord, as you have said. Take your flocks and your herds, as you have said, and be gone, and bless me also!” The Egyptians were urgent with the people to send them out of the land in haste. For they said, “We shall all be dead.” (Exodus 12: 29 to 33)

The last plague finally was brought down by God to kill all the firstborns in the land of Egypt. It's a tragedy for all the Egyptians family because the firstborn of each family died. It was never an easy task for both Moses and God. So, Moses told the Israelites to remember the Passover as below.

And when you come to the land that the Lord will give you, as he has promised, you shall keep this service. And when your children say to you, ‘What do you mean by this service?’ you shall say, ‘It is the sacrifice of the Lord's Passover, for he passed over the houses of the people of Israel in Egypt, when he struck the Egyptians but spared our houses.’” And the people bowed their heads and worshiped. (Exodus 12: 25 to 27)

Yet it opened a mystery for life. With the blood on the door then there was life. Without the blood on the door then it's death. So, blood is the only way to open the door that led to life. After the plagues, the Israelites finally started their exodus sojourning as described below.

The people of Israel had also done as Moses told them, for they had asked the Egyptians for silver and gold jewelry and for clothing. And the Lord had given the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they let them have what they asked. Thus they plundered the Egyptians. And the people of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth, about six hundred thousand men on foot, besides women and children. A mixed multitude also went up with them, and very much livestock, both flocks and herds. And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough that they had brought out of Egypt, for it was not leavened, because they were thrust out of Egypt and could not wait, nor had they prepared any provisions for themselves. The time that the people of Israel lived in Egypt was 430 years. At the end of 430 years, on that very day, all the hosts of the Lord went out from the land of Egypt. (Exodus 12: 35 to 40)

All of the plagues were finally paid off. Not only the Egyptians let the Israelites go by giving up their fortune asked by the Israelites, but also the Israelites and mixed multitude were willing to give up a place where they had lived for 430 years. So, the Israelites had restored their lost identity of being shepherds. Yet, God not only did it for Israelites but also for us too. For us, God wants us to be a sojourner in our inner soul too as described in the Bible below.

Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. (First Peter 2: 11 12)

Because our destination is not in this world as described below.

For here we have no lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come. (Hebrews 13: 14)

For Jesus Christ would transform our citizenship from this world to heaven as described below.

But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. (Philippians 3: 20 21) 

Yet, we need to prepare our hearts as described below.

Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world— the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride of life— is not from the Father but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. (First John 2: 15 to 17)

Do not love this world but God, because the will of God is to bring us through Christ Jesus to the eternal city, the heavenly New Jerusalem. Immanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)