The Death on Livestock and Boil Plagues

For if you refuse to let them go and still hold them, behold, the hand of the Lord will fall with a very severe plague upon your livestock that are in the field, the horses, the donkeys, the camels, the herds, and the flocks. But the Lord will make a distinction between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt, so that nothing of all that belongs to the people of Israel shall die. (Exodus 9: 2 to 4)

Because those previous plagues didn't cause much physical damage, Pharaoh still won't let the Israelites go. So, God laid His hand on something Egyptians cared for, their livestock. After all of their livestock died, the heart of Pharaoh was still hardened. So, God said to Moses and Aaron to send the boil plague as described below.

So they took soot from the kiln and stood before Pharaoh. And Moses threw it in the air, and it became boils breaking out in sores on man and beast. And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils, for the boils came upon the magicians and upon all the Egyptians. But the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he did not listen to them, as the Lord had spoken to Moses. (Exodus 9: 10 to 12)

This is pretty similar to what had happened to Job. After losing all of his livestock and children, Job still did not sin or charge God with wrong. So, Satan challenged God to touch Job's flesh as described below.

Then Satan answered the Lord and said, “Skin for skin! All that a man has he will give for his life. But stretch out your hand and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse you to your face.” And the Lord said to Satan, “Behold, he is in your hand; only spare his life.” So Satan went out from the presence of the Lord and struck Job with loathsome sores from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head. And he took a piece of broken pottery with which to scrape himself while he sat in the ashes.  (Job 2: 4 to 8)

So, the combination of livestock and boil plagues did put Pharaoh and the Egyptians under the extreme stress test. However, instead of waiting for Pharaoh to change his mind of letting Israelites go, God hardened the heart of Pharaoh as described below.

And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils, for the boils came upon the magicians and upon all the Egyptians. But the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he did not listen to them, as the Lord had spoken to Moses. (Exodus 9: 11 12)

Why did God harden Pharaoh's heart? It seemed to defeat the purpose for Pharaoh letting the Israelites go. Again, this was similar to Job's experience. After losing everything including his own wellbeing, Job had to endure the accusations and criticisms from his friends. During his trials, Job was defending his integrity and righteousness until God revealed Himself to him. After being challenged by God, Job finally confessed himself to God as described below.

Then Job answered the Lord and said: “I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted. ‘Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge?’ Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand, things too wonderful for me, which I did not know. ‘Hear, and I will speak; I will question you, and you make it known to me.’ I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you; therefore I despise myself, and repent in dust and ashes.” (Job 42: 1 to 6)

So, God could easily convince our flesh that we are no match to God's almighty power. However, to convince our heart to submit to Him takes time. So, to convince Pharaoh that he is no match to God's power was just the beginning. God wanted to convince Pharaoh's will to admit that God is the Lord. That's why God hardened Pharaoh's heart to strike down more plagues. Emmanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)