The Founder and Perfecter 

Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. (Hebrews 12: 1 2) 

As described before, there were many people who suffered and even died because of their faith for the New Jerusalem, the holy city, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband, Christ. The Bible describes the Church as the body and bride of Christ below. 

For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. (Ephesians 5: 23 to 27) 

The Church is not only the body and bride of Christ but also sanctified and cleansed by Christ himself. That’s why Christ is the founder and perfecter of our faith. In addition to lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, we also need to look to Jesus as the author described. To do so, Jesus Christ told us to take his yoke as described below. 

Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. (Matthew 11: 28 to 30) 

In the Bible, God also asked Israelites to carry a yoke as described below. 

Thus the Lord said to me: “Make yourself straps and yoke-bars, and put them on your neck. Send word to the king of Edom, the king of Moab, the king of the sons of Ammon, the king of Tyre, and the king of Sidon by the hand of the envoys who have come to Jerusalem to Zedekiah king of Judah. Give them this charge for their masters: ‘Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: This is what you shall say to your masters: “It is I who by my great power and my outstretched arm have made the earth, with the men and animals that are on the earth, and I give it to whomever it seems right to me. Now I have given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant, and I have given him also the beasts of the field to serve him. All the nations shall serve him and his son and his grandson, until the time of his own land comes. Then many nations and great kings shall make him their slave. But if any nation or kingdom will not serve this Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and put its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, I will punish that nation with the sword, with famine, and with pestilence, declares the Lord, until I have consumed it by his hand.” (Jeremiah 27: 2 to 8) 

As expected, none of the nations followed God’s command to carry the yoke. So, they were all punished as described by God. Clearly, the yoke is not a welcoming thing. So, why did Jesus Christ ask us to carry the yoke? Not only that, but Jesus also asked us to carry our own cross as described below. 

Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. (Matthew 10: 37 to 39) 

It’s even harder for us to bear. So, that’s why we need faith to take the yoke and carry our own cross because it’s against our flesh, the knowledge of good and evil. Therefore, Jesus Christ will send us another Helper as described below. 

If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. (John 14: 15 to 17) 

If we love Jesus Christ and keep his command, then the Helper will teach us why his yoke is easy and light and gives us rest. Like Christ who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God, the Help will open our eyes to see the glorious New Jerusalem like many witnesses before us. All we need to do is to look in Christ and let him be the founder and perfecter of our faith. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)