The Tabernacle

Moreover, you shall make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twined linen and blue and purple and scarlet yarns; you shall make them with cherubim skillfully worked into them. The length of each curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits; all the curtains shall be the same size. Five curtains shall be coupled to one another, and the other five curtains shall be coupled to one another. And you shall make loops of blue on the edge of the outermost curtain in the first set. Likewise you shall make loops on the edge of the outermost curtain in the second set. Fifty loops you shall make on the one curtain, and fifty loops you shall make on the edge of the curtain that is in the second set; the loops shall be opposite one another. And you shall make fifty clasps of gold, and couple the curtains one to the other with the clasps, so that the tabernacle may be a single whole. (Exodus 26: 1 to 6)

God commanded the people of Israel to build a tabernacle. Like a tent, it was covered with curtains. The first layer of the curtains was made of linen and blue and purple and scarlet yarns. The second layer was made of the goats' hair. It's made larger than the first layer but was connected the same way. Then they were covered with the tanned rams' skins and another layer of goatskins on top. So, there were four layers of curtains to cover the top of the tabernacle. However, there was no carpet to cover the ground. So, the tabernacle was raised on the dry ground, just as Jesus Christ described below.

For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground; he had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief; and as one from whom men hide their faces he was despised, and we esteemed him not. (Isaiah 53: 2 3)

Like the tabernacle, Jesus Christ grew up before God like a root out of dry ground. Had no beauty like the goatskin outside of the tabernacle that people should desire him. Yet, like the inner layer of the curtain yarns, Jesus has the divine nature of the heavenly blue, the kingship nature of the noble purple and the redemption nature of the cleansing scarlet. Yet before the days were fulfilled, the tabernacle was still guarded by the cherubim on the curtain. The second goats' hair layer was black representing Christ being made sin by God for our sake. The third rams' skins layer was red representing Christ's sacrificing blood. So, the tabernacle curtains represented God's mercy being fulfilled through Jesus Christ. Then God commanded the people of Israel to make the wooden frames as described below.

You shall make upright frames for the tabernacle of acacia wood. Ten cubits shall be the length of a frame, and a cubit and a half the breadth of each frame. There shall be two tenons in each frame, for fitting together. So shall you do for all the frames of the tabernacle. (Exodus 26: 15 to 17)

Then they should make the frames for the tabernacle as described below.

You shall make the frames for the tabernacle: twenty frames for the south side; and forty bases of silver you shall make under the twenty frames, two bases under one frame for its two tenons, and two bases under the next frame for its two tenons; and for the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side twenty frames, and their forty bases of silver, two bases under one frame, and two bases under the next frame. And for the rear of the tabernacle westward you shall make six frames. And you shall make two frames for corners of the tabernacle in the rear; they shall be separate beneath, but joined at the top, at the first ring. Thus shall it be with both of them; they shall form the two corners. (Exodus 26: 18 to 24)

Then they should make five acacia bars for each side of the frames with the middle bar ran from end to end through their holding rings of gold. The frames and bars should be overlaid with gold. Then they should erect the tabernacle according to the plan for it that was shown on the mountain. The well designed acacia wood frame not only provided a sturdy, symmetry, enduring support for the curtains but the gold overlays and silver bases also symbolized God's glory and Christ's redemption, just as the church described in the Bible below.

So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. (Ephesians 2: 19 to 22)

So, God used to dwell with Israelites in the tabernacle. Now, through Christ, God is dwelling in our heart because our heart is His holy temple. Emmanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)
