The Man 

It has been testified somewhere, “What is man, that you are mindful of him, or the son of man, that you care for him? You made him for a little while lower than the angels; you have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet.” 

Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him. But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. 

For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source.  That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers. (Hebrews 2: 6 to 11) 

We often forget that we are different from the rest of the world. So, we still feel that we need to strive to make a living and fulfil our needs and still need to plan for our future and success.  We probably didn’t remember the power of salvation. So, the Hebrews writer reminded us that God cares us so much, He is willing to put everything in subjection under our feet.   

To prove his point, the writer was using Jesus Christ as an illustration. Jesus Christ is the Son of God. So, there is no doubt in our mind that God has put everything in subjection under his feet. It is described in the Bible as below. 

He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities—all things were created through him and for him. (Colossians 1: 15 16) 

Sometimes, we forget that he is a man too. He is not only 100 percent God but also 100 percent man. Not only that, but he is also our brother too as the Bible described below. 

And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified he also glorified. (Romans 8: 28 to 30) 

By ourselves, it’s hard to imagine that we could have the same power and glory as Jesus Christ.  However, if we believe that we have the same sonship as Christ, then we could inherit the same love of Christ as described below. 

What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died—more than that, who was raised—who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? (Romans 8: 31 to 35) 

Because of Christ, not only that we could have faith as a man but also enjoy the inseparable love of Christ as a man. That's how we could experience what is described in the Bible as below. 

But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people; once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. (First Peter 2: 9 10) 

Because of Christ, we are now God's people. That's how we know that we are different from the world and can live accordingly. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)