The High Priest 

Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil, and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. (Hebrews 2: 14 to 18) 

Jesus was a man just like us. So, he was subject to temptations and death just like us. In the gospel of Matthew, it describes how Jesus was tempted by the devil. 

Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. And the tempter came and said to him, “If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread.” But he answered, “It is written, ‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.’”  Then the devil took him to the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple and said to him, “If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, ‘He will command his angels concerning you,’ and ‘On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.’” Jesus said to him, “Again it is written, ‘You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.’” Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. And he said to him, “All these I will give you, if you will fall down and worship me.” Then Jesus said to him, “Be gone, Satan! For it is written, ‘You shall worship the Lord your God and him only shall you serve.’” Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to him. (Matthew 4: 1 to 11) 

Jesus truly understood what temptations could do to a man. That’s why he taught us to pray to God to “lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil” (Matthew 6: 13). Also, the Bible describes when Jesus went to Lazarus’s funeral as below. 

When Mary reached the place where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet and said, “Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.” When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come along with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in spirit and troubled. “Where have you laid him?” he asked. “Come and see, Lord,” they replied. Jesus wept. (John 11: 32 to 35) 

Jesus knew that he could raise Lazarus from death. However, when he saw that they were desperate and sorrow facing death, he couldn’t help but wept with them. We know that we are subject to death and temptation because of sin. Even though we are saved but still, we felt that we couldn’t free ourselves from those shackles. Therefore, the Hebrews author reminded us about the Israeli’s high priest. Only the high priest could deliver Israelites, the offspring of Abraham on earth, from sins because that’s God’s will and command. As for the offspring of Abraham from heaven, we could have Jesus Christ as a high priest to deliver us too. Not only that he could deliver us because he is the Son of God, but also because he himself had gone through the temptation and death. So, he could deliver us with a merciful and faithful heart. And with the faith from the Holy Spirit, we believe that he won’t stop until God’s righteousness is fulfilled just like the apostle Paul described below. 

And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. It is right for me to feel this way about you all, because I hold you in my heart, for you are all partakers with me of grace, both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel. For God is my witness, how I yearn for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus. And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more, with knowledge and all discernment, so that you may approve what is excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ, filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.  (Philippians 1: 6 to 11) 

Faith is the foundation. The goal is that our love may abound more and more, with knowledge and all discernment, so that we may approve what is excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ, filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God. That’s the fruit Christ Jesus, the merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, determined to complete in us to present to God. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)