The Completion of the Tabernacle

The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, “On the first day of the first month you shall erect the tabernacle of the tent of meeting. And you shall put in it the ark of the testimony, and you shall screen the ark with the veil. And you shall bring in the table and arrange it, and you shall bring in the lampstand and set up its lamps. And you shall put the golden altar for incense before the ark of the testimony, and set up the screen for the door of the tabernacle. You shall set the altar of burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, and place the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it. And you shall set up the court all around, and hang up the screen for the gate of the court. “Then you shall take the anointing oil and anoint the tabernacle and all that is in it, and consecrate it and all its furniture, so that it may become holy. (Exodus 40: 1 to 9)

The tabernacle was completed one year after the people of Israel were led by Moses out of Egypt. In the past year or so, they had experienced God's wonder and almighty more than any other people or nations could imagine, such as the ten plagues in Egypt, the departing of Red Sea, the manna from heaven, water from the rock or the bitter water turned sweet, the Ten Commandments on Mount Sinai, a pillar of cloud by day and fire by night, etc. the list went on and on. Yet, the greatest miracle of them all was that God promised to dwell among the Israelites and be their God. That was why God commanded them to make Him a sanctuary so that He might dwell in their midst. After completing the tabernacle and all of its crafts according to what God had commanded Moses on Mount Saini, God commanded them to erect the tabernacle and put in the ark of the testimony and the rest of furniture, such as the veil, table, lampstand and the lamp, golden altar for incense, and the screen for the door of the tabernacle. Then to put the burnt offering altar and the basin with water in it in the courtyard, and set up the court and hang up the screen for the gate. Then God commanded them to anoint the tabernacle and everything in it so that it may become holy. God also commanded Moses to anoint the furniture in the court to become holy. Then God commanded Moses to consecrate Aaron and his sons as below.

Then you shall bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the tent of meeting and shall wash them with water and put on Aaron the holy garments. And you shall anoint him and consecrate him, that he may serve me as priest. You shall bring his sons also and put coats on them, and anoint them, as you anointed their father, that they may serve me as priests. And their anointing shall admit them to a perpetual priesthood throughout their generations. (Exodus 40: 12 to 15)

So, Moses did as God commanded. Then the glory of God was shown below.

Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting because the cloud settled on it, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. (Exodus 40: 34 35)

Not only that, but the glory of God was also with them as described below.

Throughout all their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the people of Israel would set out. But if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not set out till the day that it was taken up. For the cloud of the Lord was on the tabernacle by day, and fire was in it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel throughout all their journeys. (Exodus 40: 36 to 38)

As for us who are saved by grace, we also have the Holy Spirit promised by Jesus Christ to be with us forever as described below.

Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you. Yet a little while and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. (John 14: 13 to 21)

The tabernacle was just the foreshadowing of Jesus Christ. If we accept Jesus Christ as our savior then all of God's glory and blessings will be given to us through our life just like the tabernacle that God promised to the people of Israel. Immanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)