The New Covenant 

But as it is, Christ has obtained a ministry that is as much more excellent than the old as the covenant he mediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises. For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion to look for a second. 

For he finds fault with them when he says “Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt.  For they did not continue in my covenant, and so I showed no concern for them, declares the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord, 

I will put my laws into their minds, and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And they shall not teach, each one his neighbor and each one his brother, saying, ‘Know the Lord,’ for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest. For I will be merciful toward their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more.” (Hebrews 8 6 to 12) 

To ensure His promises, God made a covenant with Israelites for Moses taking the covenant to Israelites as the Bible described below. 

And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he threw against the altar. Then he took the Book of the Covenant and read it in the hearing of the people. And they said, “All that the Lord has spoken we will do, and we will be obedient.” And Moses took the blood and threw it on the people and said, “Behold the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words.” (Exodus 24 6 to 8) 

However, Israelites failed to be obedient to follow. Not because God's promises were not good enough but because the covenant couldn't change their heart. It cannot perfect the conscience of the worshiper but deal only with food and drink and various washings. So, God prophesied through Jeremiah a better new covenant to put His laws into their minds and write them on their hearts to be their God, and they shall be His people. Also, Isaiah prophesied the same new covenant as described below. 

“And a Redeemer will come to Zion, to those in Jacob who turn from transgression,” declares the Lord. “And as for me, this is my covenant with them,” says the Lord “My Spirit that is upon you, and my words that I have put in your mouth, shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring,” says the Lord, “from this time forth and forevermore.” (Isaiah 59 20 21) 

God not only reassured His new covenant but also promised them a Redeemer who is Jesus Christ as Christ has obtained a ministry that is as much more excellent than the old as the covenant he mediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises. 

Christ Jesus not only redeemed us from our sins but also fulfilled the new covenant to reconcile God with us through him as described below. 

Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come. All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation; that is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. (Second Corinthian 5 17 to 19) 

Not only that, but the reconciliation is also so strong that nobody could snatch us from him as described in the Bible below. 

My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one.” (John 10 27 to 29) 

Therefore, a perfect new covenant is fulfilled. Also, in Isaiah's new covenant prophecy, God promised us the Spirit is upon us and the words in our mouth. So, we will attain faith and the Son of God through them as described below. 

until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful schemes. Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ, from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love.(Ephesians 4 13 to 16) 

As the Redeemer, Mediator and High Priest, Christ Jesus indeed is the assurance for us to fulfill the New Covenant too. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)