The Basin, Anointing Oil and Incense

You shall also make a basin of bronze, with its stand of bronze, for washing. You shall put it between the tent of meeting and the altar, and you shall put water in it, with which Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet. When they go into the tent of meeting, or when they come near the altar to minister, to burn a food offering to the Lord, they shall wash with water, so that they may not die. They shall wash their hands and their feet, so that they may not die. It shall be a statute forever to them, even to him and to his offspring throughout their generations. (Exodus 30: 18 to 21)

As God's priests, Aaron and his sons needed to deal with the blood of the offerings. So, God said to Moses to make a bronze basin for them to wash their hands and feet before entering the tent. Even though it seems to be trivial, it is important to be cleansed to come near to God as described below.

Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? And who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully. (Psalm 24: 3 4)

Jesus also washed disciples' feet as described below.

Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going back to God, rose from supper. He laid aside his outer garments, and taking a towel, tied it around his waist. Then he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him. (John 13: 3 to 5)

Yet Jesus warned them as below.

Jesus said to him, “The one who has bathed does not need to wash, except for his feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not every one of you.”  For he knew who was to betray him; that was why he said, “Not all of you are clean.” (John 13: 10 11)

Therefore, it is said in the Bible as below.

Keep your heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the springs of life. (Proverbs 4: 23)

So, the clean appearance of washing hands and feet is a reminder of having a vigilant heart. Then God told Moses to make the anointing oil as below.

Take the finest spices: of liquid myrrh 500 shekels, and of sweet-smelling cinnamon half as much, that is, 250, and 250 of aromatic cane, and 500 of cassia, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, and a hin of olive oil. And you shall make of these a sacred anointing oil blended as by the perfumer; it shall be a holy anointing oil. (Exodus 30: 23 to 25)

The oil would be used to anoint the tent, the ark, all of the items in the tent, and Aaron and his sons for consecration. It could not be poured to ordinary people nor be made for anything else with the same compounds. Only with the consecration anointing oil, God would dwell in their midst. So, for God to dwell among us, we also need to consecrate ourselves as below.

Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? What accord has Christ with Belial? Or what portion does a believer share with an unbeliever? What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God; as God said, “I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing; then I will welcome you, and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty.” (Second Corinthians 6: 14 to 18)

The anointing oil is described as the Spirit in the Bible below.

The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor; he has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound; (Isiah 61: 1 2)

Jesus said that he will send us the Holy Spirit as described below.

But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. (John 14: 26)

Then God said to Moses to make an incense as below.

Take sweet spices, stacte, and onycha, and galbanum, sweet spices with pure frankincense (of each shall there be an equal part), and make an incense blended as by the perfumer, seasoned with salt, pure and holy. You shall beat some of it very small, and put part of it before the testimony in the tent of meeting where I shall meet with you. It shall be most holy for you. (Exodus 30: 34 to 36)

As mentioned before, the incense represents the prayers of all saints. Yet, to make the perfume, some of the ingredients should be beaten very small. So, it symbolizes the saints sometimes needed to endure pressure, suffering and even be refined by fire. Only then the saints' prayers can become perfume to please God. Immanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)