The Garments

Then bring near to you Aaron your brother, and his sons with him, from among the people of Israel, to serve me as priests—Aaron and Aaron's sons, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. And you shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother, for glory and for beauty. You shall speak to all the skillful, whom I have filled with a spirit of skill, that they make Aaron's garments to consecrate him for my priesthood. These are the garments that they shall make: a breastpiece, an ephod, a robe, a coat of checker work, a turban, and a sash. They shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother and his sons to serve me as priests. They shall receive gold, blue and purple and scarlet yarns, and fine twined linen. (Exodus 28: 1 to 5)

When Adam and Eve were created by God, they were naked and not ashamed. After eating the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil, their eyes were opened, and knew that they were naked. So, they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths. That might cover their body from the ground but not their sin. So, the Lord God made for Adam and Eve garments of skins and clothed them and sent them from the garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken. That's why God favors Cable's animal sacrifices more than Can's earthly offerings. Now, God wanted to live in the midst of the people of Israel and to be served by them. So, God commanded Moses to make holy garments for Aaron and his sons. It's not for covering their shameful sin but for the glory and beauty that God prepared for them. The priest's garments were seven pieces, a breastpiece, an ephod, a robe, a coat of checker work, a turban, and a sash. They were all made of gold, blue and purple and scarlet yarns, and fine twined linen. The colors of blue, purple and scarlet all represented the nature of Christ Jesus and the gold represented his kingship. So, the Bible describes Jesus Christ as our High Priest below.

Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. (Hebrews 4: 14 to 16)

Then the ephod that was made with two onyx stones as described below.

As a jeweler engraves signets, so shall you engrave the two stones with the names of the sons of Israel. You shall enclose them in settings of gold filigree. And you shall set the two stones on the shoulder pieces of the ephod, as stones of remembrance for the sons of Israel. And Aaron shall bear their names before the Lord on his two shoulders for remembrance. (Exodus 28: 11 12)

The Bible also describes Jesus Christ as High Priest for his believers below.

but he holds his priesthood permanently, because he continues forever. Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. (Hebrews 7: 24 25)

Then the breastpiece of judgment as described below.

There shall be twelve stones with their names according to the names of the sons of Israel. They shall be like signets, each engraved with its name, for the twelve tribes. (Exodus 28: 21)

It was attached in front to the shoulder pieces of the ephod on Aaron's heart as below.

And in the breastpiece of judgment you shall put the Urim and the Thummim, and they shall be on Aaron's heart, when he goes in before the Lord. Thus Aaron shall bear the judgment of the people of Israel on his heart before the Lord regularly. (Exodus 28: 30)

Like the High Priest, Christ also bore the judgement of his people as described below.

For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil. (Second Corinthians 5: 10)

Then the blue robe of the ephod with pomegranates of blue and purple and scarlet yarns on its hem, with bells of gold between them, a golden bell and a pomegranate, and so on.

And it shall be on Aaron when he ministers, and its sound shall be heard when he goes into the Holy Place before the Lord, and when he comes out, so that he does not die. (Exodus 28: 35)

Then the turban as described below.

You shall make a plate of pure gold and engrave on it, like the engraving of a signet, ‘Holy to the Lord.’ And you shall fasten it on the turban by a cord of blue. It shall be on the front of the turban. (Exodus 28: 36 37)

The last was the linen undergarments to cover their naked flesh. Christ also covers our flesh as below.

But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to gratify its desires. (Romans 13: 14)

So, the High Priest garments covered them physically, our savior Christ Jesus covers us inside out, physically and spiritually. Immanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)
