The Lips 

For here we have no lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come. Through him then let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name. Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God. Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls, as those who will have to give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you. Pray for us, for we are sure that we have a clear conscience, desiring to act honorably in all things. I urge you the more earnestly to do this in order that I may be restored to you the sooner. (Hebrews 13: 14 to 19) 

We often hear terms like lip service, talk is cheap, empty talk, or even white lies, etc., because people’s lips are not trustworthy. However, even though our lips are not trustworthy, Jesus Christ still cared about our lips as described below. 

The good person out of the good treasure of his heart produces good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure produces evil, for out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks. (Luke 6: 45) 

Even God treated them seriously as described below. 

And the Lord said: “Because this people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment taught by men, (Isaiah 29:13)

Isn’t God able to read people’s minds? Why did God still expect praises from people’s lips? Is it possible for people to praise God as the fruit of lips that acknowledge His name? It’s described in the Bible as below. 

Then he said to me, “This is the word of the Lord to Zerubbabel: Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit, says the Lord of hosts. Who are you, O great mountain? Before Zerubbabel you shall become a plain. And he shall bring forward the top stone amid shouts of ‘Grace, grace to it!’” (Zechariah 4: 6 7) 

Indeed, not by the might and power of our own flesh but by the Spirit we could shout grace to praise God. After being saved. We inherit the Holy Spirit from Christ, the stone. The Spirit will declare what is Christ’s to us as described below. 

When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. All that the Father has is mine; therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you. (John 16: 13 to 15) 

So, we are no longer living by our sinful flesh that is under the control of the deceitful knowledge of good and evil. Instead, our lips should be controlled by the Holy Spirit as Christ instructed disciples below. 

And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities, do not be anxious about how you should defend yourself or what you should say, for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say.” (Luke 12: 12 13)   

The Spirit will also give us life as described below. 

It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. (John 6: 63) 

Because Christ is the Word who became flesh as described below. 

And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. (John bore witness about him, and cried out, “This was he of whom I said, ‘He who comes after me ranks before me, because he was before me.’”) For from his fullness we have all received, grace upon grace. (John 1: 14 to 16) 

So, to receive Christ, we received the fullness of the Word. From the Word we receive grace upon grace. Then the praises from our lips would become the fruit to glorify God. This is the faith we proclaimed from the Word because it becomes flesh in our mouth and in our heart as described below. 

But what does it say? “The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart” (that is, the word of faith that we proclaim); because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For the Scripture says, “Everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame.” For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For “everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.” (Romans 10: 8 to 13) 

This is the truth among all who believe in Christ, no distinction between Jew and Greek. Not only that we are saved, but also our lips could share Christ’s riches among the body of Christ to treat among us with joy now and not with groaning as the author advised. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)