The Most Holy Place

And you shall make a veil of blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen. It shall be made with cherubim skillfully worked into it. And you shall hang it on four pillars of acacia overlaid with gold, with hooks of gold, on four bases of silver. And you shall hang the veil from the clasps, and bring the ark of the testimony in there within the veil. And the veil shall separate for you the Holy Place from the Most Holy. You shall put the mercy seat on the ark of the testimony in the Most Holy Place. And you shall set the table outside the veil, and the lampstand on the south side of the tabernacle opposite the table, and you shall put the table on the north side. You shall make a screen for the entrance of the tent, of blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen, embroidered with needlework. And you shall make for the screen five pillars of acacia, and overlay them with gold. Their hooks shall be of gold, and you shall cast five bases of bronze for them. (Exodus 26: 31 to 37)

After commanding the making of the tabernacle, God commanded the Israelites to make a veil to separate the Holy Place and the Most Holy Place. The veil was made in the same pattern as the inner curtain. Cherubin was also skillfully worked into it to guard the mercy seat on the ark of the testimony in the Most Holy Place. Even though the ark and mercy seat was put in the Most Holy Place, the whole tabernacle is holy. That's because the tabernacle was not only a dwelling place for God but also a worshiping place. Through worshiping, God shared His holy with the Israelites, not only the Israelites but also all of the believers who are saved by grace. To worship God, we need to consecrate our heart as described below.

God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. (John 4: 24)

To be in spirit and truth, our heart and soul need to be prone fully to God as King David described below.

O Lord, you have searched me and known me! You know when I sit down and when I rise up; you discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. You hem me in, behind and before, and lay your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high; I cannot attain it. Where shall I go from your Spirit? Or where shall I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you are there! If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there! If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. (Psalm 139: 1 to 10)

Only then our heart could partake God's glory and holiness through His Word as described by King David below.

The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are there words, whose voice is not heard. Their voice goes out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun, which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber, and, like a strong man, runs its course with joy. Its rising is from the end of the heavens, and its circuit to the end of them, and there is nothing hidden from its heat. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul; the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple; the precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes; the fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever; the rules of the Lord are true, and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is your servant warned; in keeping them there is great reward. (Psalms 19: 1 to 11)

That's why God commanded the Israelites to build the tabernacle to share not only His mercy but also His glory and holiness. Now, the Word has become Jesus Christ as described below.

But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God. And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. (John 1: 12 to 14)

Therefore, through Jesus Christ, we can now claim the glory, full of grace and truth that God promised to the Israelites through the Most Holy Place. Emmanuel.

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)