The Oath 

For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he had no one greater by whom to swear, he swore by himself, saying, “Surely I will bless you and multiply you.” And thus Abraham having patiently waited, obtained the promise. For people swear by something greater than themselves, and in all their disputes an oath is final for confirmation. So when God desired to show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeable character of his purpose, he guaranteed it with an oath,  so that by two unchangeable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have fled for refuge might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us.  We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain, where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. (Hebrews 6: 13 to 20) 

It's hard to imagine that God would swear for Abraham. We may not know why God chose Abraham. But undoubtedly, he is the luckiest man on earth because no matter whatever he did, or didn’t do, God’s oath would stand. Nonetheless, Abraham indeed showed that he prevailed God's oath. Abraham is called the father of faith because of his willingness to fulfill God's demand including to sacrifice his only son, Isaac. We knew that God didn't let Abraham kill Isaac in the end. If we knew that God would keep our children from harm, then we probably would do the same as Abraham. Yet, this is before Abraham could see the happy ending. In his mind, he might need to kill Isaac then somehow, God would make Isaac alive again. If we knew that we needed to do the killing first, then I am sure that we would have a second thought. Yet, Abraham didn't question or hesitate. That’s basically the meaning of faith. Even though we don’t see the outcome, we know that God's oath will prevail and that's sufficient for us. 

Not only to Abraham, but the same oath was also applied to Abraham’s offspring, the Israelites.  Doesn’t matter how rebellious they were, or how unrepentant, God would keep his oath.  Surely, they would have to pay for what they did, such as idolatry, disbelief, etc. Yet, God still reached out to them as described below.  

“Come, let us return to the Lord; for he has torn us, that he may heal us; he has struck us down, and he will bind us up.” (Hosea 6: 1) 

Just by witnessing Israel becoming a nation again in 1948 would be proof that God’s oath never failed.  As Abraham, we also have many promises from God, such as the Bible described below. 

“For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.  For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him.” (John 3: 16 17) 

The Bible also described the promise of salvation as below. 

There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus.  For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. (Romans 8: 1 to 4) 

The Bible continues as below. 

What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died—more than that, who was raised—who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. (Romans 8: 31 to 34) 

No wonder the Hebrews writer claimed that “We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain.”  

Better than Israel, we not only have the promise, but also the Spirit. The Spirit would lead us every step of the way in life as described in the Bible below. 

But the anointing that you received from him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone should teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about everything, and is true, and is no lie—just as it has taught you, abide in him. (First John, 2: 27) 

Jesus Christ indeed is a forerunner for us. We don't need to look far. All we need to do is to let the Spirit teach us through faith, then we would not run aimlessly, nor box as one beating the air. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)