The Perfected 

And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us; for after saying, “This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws on their hearts, and write them on their minds,” then he adds, “I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more.” Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin. (Hebrews 10: 11 to 18) 

We know that we are sanctified because Jesus Christ was sacrificed for our sins and redeemed us according to God’s will. However, after that, it seems to be a different story. I have heard a lady prayed for the blood of Christ to cleanse her house, the windows, the doors, etc. I also heard another lady praying to eat and drink the Lord to fulfill her heart’s needs. After being sanctified, God wants us to be perfected. But how? Originally, when men, male and female, were created by God in God’s image, they were perfect in God’s eyes. God not only created man perfect but created Satan perfect too as described in the Bible below. 

You were an anointed guardian cherub. I placed you; you were on the holy mountain of God; in the midst of the stones of fire you walked. You were blameless in your ways from the day you were created, till unrighteousness was found in you. (Ezekiel 28: 14 15) 

Satan was created glorious and blameless, then fell from heaven because of his pride as described in the Bible below. 

You said in your heart, ‘I will ascend to heaven; above the stars of God I will set my throne on high; I will sit on the mount of assembly in the far reaches of the north; I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High.’ But you are brought down to Sheol, to the far reaches of the pit. (Isaiah 14: 13 to 15) 

The same happened to Adam and Eve. They desired to be as great as God like Satan so that they could be their own masters. That’s why when God bragged about Job’s blameless and uprightness who feared God, Satan had to challenge God as described below. 

Then Satan answered the Lord and said, “Does Job fear God for no reason? Have you not put a hedge around him and his house and all that he has, on every side? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land. But stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, and he will curse you to your face.” (Job 1: 9 to 11) 

In Satan’s view, nobody could be perfect, fearful and humble to God at the same time. Job proved him wrong as described below. 

I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you; therefore I despise myself, and repent in dust and ashes. (Job 42: 5 6) 

If Job didn’t defeat Satan’s pride, then Jesus Christ certainly did. Christ is as perfect as God. Yet, even after enduring all the atrocity permitted by God, Christ still totally submitted himself to God as the Bible described below. 

Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. (Philippians 2: 5 to 8) 

That’s the kind of perfection that God wants us to have. Now, we have the mindset, the next thing is how to fulfill it. Jesus Christ taught the disciples as described below. 

Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. (Matthew 10: 37 to 39) 

If we are submitted to Christ, then Christ will respond to us as described in the Bible below. 

Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. Or which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent? If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him! (Matthew 7: 7 to 11) 

To be perfected in our own ways is not only impossible but also harmful to our relationship with God. Only if we submit ourselves to Christ Jesus in faith to let him lead the way to fulfill his perfection in us, then we will be perfected. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)