The Heavenly Homeland 

These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth. For people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return. But as it is, they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city. (Hebrews 11: 13 to 16) 

Abraham lived in tents all his life. So, he knew that the country God promised was not built on earth. Sarah had experienced God’s almighty to conceive and give birth to Isaac. So, she knew that the descendants that God promised were not born by flesh but by faith. Therefore, both the country and descendants that God promised were beyond this world. They knew they were just strangers and exiled on the earth and thought to desire a better country, a heavenly one. As for us who have been saved by the blood, Christ also prepared the heavenly house for us as described below. 

In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going. (John 14: 2 to 4) 

Christ not only prepared the heavenly house for us but also promised to take us there himself. So, Christ revealed how to lead us to the Father as described below. 

Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on you do know him and have seen him.” (john 14: 6 7) 

Christ also sent the Holy Spirit to help us as described below. 

And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you. (John 14: 16 to 18) 

However, even with all of the promises we may still not looking forward to the promised heavenly homeland like Abraham and Sarah. That’s because we need to free our mind and sight from the desires of the flesh as described below. 

Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride of life is not from the Father but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. (First John 2: 15 to 17) 

In order to do so, we need to take the cross to follow Christ as described below. 

And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. (Matthew 10: 38 39) 

Otherwise, we might become what the Bible has described as below if we are so possessed by the world. 

For many, of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction, their god is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things. (Philippians 3: 18 19) 

If we take our own cross to submit our life to Christ then we will find our citizenship in heaven as described below. 

But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. (Philippians 3: 20 21) 

This is to prepare us to enter New Jerusalem as described below. 

And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, “Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.” (Revelation 21: 2 to 4) 

Before Jesus Christ, only a few could see and seek the heavenly homeland. However, with faith, all of us who believe in Christ could not only look forward to New Jerusalem but also have the assurance. That's the best gift our faith could bring to us. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)