Whom the World Was Not Worthy 

And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets— who through faith conquered kingdoms, enforced justice, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong out of weakness, became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight. Women received back their dead by resurrection. Some were tortured, refusing to accept release, so that they might rise again to a better life. Others suffered mocking and flogging, and even chains and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were killed with the sword. They went about in skins of sheep and goats, destitute, afflicted, mistreated— of whom the world was not worthy—wandering about in deserts and mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth. And all these, though commended through their faith, did not receive what was promised, Since God had provided something better for us, that apart from us they should not be made perfect. (Hebrews 11: 32 to 40) 

Through the history of Israelites, many individuals had shown their faith. Even in the dark years of Judges. It's an era that Israel had no king and everyone did as they saw fit. So, all the human darkness was exposed to the extreme. As a reverend pastor once said that every time after reading Judges, he needed to wash his eyeballs. Even in that era, there were four judges, Gideon, Barak, Samson and Jephthah. They showed faith the same faith as David and Samuel and prophets. By faith, they all accomplished extraordinary things as recorded in the Bible. However, across human history, there were people who also could accomplish extraordinary things driven by their own ideals, dreams or burdens. In other words, by their own flesh. So, what’s the difference between the one who was driven by faith and the one who was driven by flesh? The difference is that the one who was driven by faith would become God’s house as described in the Bible below. 

Now Moses was faithful in all God's house as a servant, to testify to the things that were to be spoken later, but Christ is faithful over God's house as a son. And we are his house, if indeed we hold fast our confidence and our boasting in our hope. (Hebrews 3: 5) 

So, if we could hold fast our confidence and hope by faith then we are God’s house. This is true during the time of Moses and even more so in Christ nowadays. God commanded Moses to build a tabernacle to be His house as described below.  

And let them make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell in their midst. Exactly as I show you concerning the pattern of the tabernacle, and of all its furniture, so you shall make it. (Exodus 25: 8 9) 

Then the holy temple was built in Jerusalem several times by Israeli rulers based on the pattern of the tabernacle. However, for those who had faith, God’s house was not in the world as described below. 

These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth. For people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. (Hebrews 11: 13 14) 

Because of their faith, they could hold fast their confidence and hope even though they were persecuted and rejected by the world. Now, the Bible tells us that we are God’s house as described below. 

So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. (Ephesians 2: 19 to 22) 

We are not only the Church of Christ but also the Bride of the Lamb. Eventually we are the New Jerusalem as the Bible described below. 

Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, “Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. (Revelation 21: 1 to 3) 

This is what those people who had died in faith were looking forward to. The New Jerusalem will come only when the bride of lamb, the church of Christ, is ready. It had been a long wait. However, they won’t give up no matter what. That made them so special. They are truly the people whom the world was not worthy. Now it’s up to us to get the bride of Lamb ready so that their wait would end perfectly. Emmanuel. 

(To return, select <- on the toolbar)